The Project Gutenberg EBook of Two American Boys with the Allied Armies, by 
Sherman Crockett

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Two American Boys with the Allied Armies

Author: Sherman Crockett

Illustrator: Charles L. Wrenn

Release Date: November 9, 2019 [EBook #60660]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TWO AMERICAN BOYS WITH ALLIED ARMIES ***




Produced by Demian Katz, Craig Kirkwood, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (Images
courtesy of the Digital Library@Villanova University
(http://digital.library.villanova.edu/))






Transcriber’s Notes:

Text enclosed by underscores is in italics (_italics_).

Starting in Chapter 3, the missing brother’s first name changes from
Tom to Frank.

Additional Transcriber’s Notes are at the end.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: “There goes one poor chap!” cried the Western
boy.--_Page 149._]




TWO AMERICAN BOYS WITH THE ALLIED ARMIES


  BY
  MAJOR SHERMAN CROCKETT

  _ILLUSTRATED BY
  CHARLES L. WRENN_

  NEW YORK
  HURST & COMPANY
  PUBLISHERS

       *       *       *       *       *

Copyright, 1915, BY HURST & COMPANY




CONTENTS


  CHAPTER                                 PAGE

      I. THE STORY OF THE OLD WINDMILL       5

     II. A MOMENT OF PERIL                  17

    III. THE BATTLE IN THE AIR              30

     IV. THE TELL-TALE CHART                42

      V. STRIKING A CLUE                    55

     VI. BEHIND THE TRENCHES                67

    VII. THE RED LANTERNS IN THE SKY        83

   VIII. THE AWAKENING                      92

     IX. WHEN THE DRIVE WAS ON             105

      X. THE CHECK LINE                    116

     XI. WATCHING THE BATTLE EBB AND FLOW  127

    XII. FROM THE CUPOLA LOOKOUT           138

   XIII. THE TRAPPED UHLANS                147

    XIV. MET ON THE ROAD                   156

     XV. WHAT CAME OF A GOOD ACT           171

    XVI. FIGURING IT ALL OUT               184

   XVII. SHELTER FROM THE STORM            194

  XVIII. THROUGH A CRACK IN THE FLOOR      211

    XIX. JACK DEMANDS THE TRUTH            221

     XX. AROUSING A COWARD                 231

    XXI. BOMBARDED BY A ZEPPELIN           243

   XXII. AT HEADQUARTERS IN YPRES          256

  XXIII. A RIDE ON A GUN CAISSON           269

   XXIV. WHAT LITTLE JACQUES DID           281

    XXV. NEARING THE GOAL                  296

       *       *       *       *       *

Two American Boys with the Allied Armies.




CHAPTER I. THE STORY OF THE OLD WINDMILL.


“Why not climb up into this battered old windmill, Amos, and take an
observation?”

“Now, that’s a good idea, Jack, only we’d better be mighty careful
about showing ourselves too recklessly, you know.”

“You mean that there might be German raiding parties skirmishing around
this section of country, don’t you, Amos?”

“Well, we’ve had to hide twice today when we glimpsed suspicious
squadrons galloping across the fields, or covering some far-off road.
And you remember that one of them bore the stamp of Uhlans in their
lances with the fluttering pennons, their dirt-colored uniforms, and
the spiked helmets.”

“Oh! we’ll try and not show ourselves, Amos; but since we’re a little
mixed up in our bearings this seems too good a chance to lose.”

“These Dutch-style windmills we’ve run across in this strip of Belgium
do make mighty good lookouts and observation towers. I warrant you some
of them have figured heavily in the ebb and flow of the war.”

“This one has for a fact, Amos,” remarked the young fellow called Jack,
as he pointed at numerous jagged holes in the concrete foundation,
where evidently a storm of bullets had struck. “You can see how it’s
been bombarded on all sides; and that top corner on the left was
torn off by a passing shell. Here inside is a pile of empty brass
cartridge-cases that tells the story as plain as print.”

“Made in Germany they were as sure as you live, and used in a
rapid-fire gun at that, Jack. Yes, it’s all written out before us. Here
in this concrete base of the windmill tower, some daring gun squad of
the Kaiser’s men took up their stand with their outfit, and held the
Allies off as long as their ammunition lasted. I wonder what happened
then, Jack?”

“I’ve got a hunch we’ll find out something after we get up where we can
look around a bit. But come on, let’s climb this ladder to the upper
part of the windmill. Have a care how you trust your whole weight on
anything, because they’ve riddled the place for keeps.”

While the two boys climb upwards with the intention of taking a
look around and getting their bearings, we might as well become
better acquainted with them, and learn what sort of mission it was
that brought two American lads over to the battle-scarred fields of
Southwestern Belgium at such a perilous time.

Jack Maxfield and Amos Turner were first cousins, and the latter
lived in one of the best-known suburbs of Chicago; while Jack, being
an orphan, was in the habit of saying that “his home was wherever he
happened to hang his hat.”

Both boys were passionately fond of outdoor life, but fortune had
allowed Jack to spend several years on a Western ranch, where he
accumulated a fund of knowledge through actual experience; while
Amos had to be content with what he could pick up through reading,
theorizing, and association with a Boy Scout troop.

Jack had been left with independent means, and chanced to be visiting
at the home of Colonel Turner, his uncle, at the time a strange event
took place which resulted in the dispatch of the two boys across the
ocean, bent upon an errand of mercy. Just what that mission was the
reader will learn by listening to the conversation between the two boys
after they reached the top of the windmill tower. Day and night it
bore heavily on the mind of Amos, so that he frequently found himself
sighing, and seeking consolation in the reassuring words his cousin was
so ready to pour out.

After some little effort they managed to pull themselves up and land on
the top of the windmill base. Roughly treated under the bombardment to
which, as a fortress, it had been subjected, the material was crumbling
in numerous places. The boys, however, had no trouble in finding room
on the top. Overhead arose one of the gaunt arms with its tattered
sail; another had been shattered by the same shell that had torn the
corner away, and lay in a heap close by.

Taking a hasty look all around, the two boys quickly discovered several
things that held their interest.

“Amos,” said Jack, gravely, “you were wondering what had become of the
Germans who defended this place against all opposition. If you will
look down there where that willow tree grows alongside the brook you’ll
understand.”

“Fresh-made graves, sure enough, Jack!” exclaimed the other, with a
quick intake of his breath. “Like as not they held out till the last
man went under. And some of their comrades passing this way stopped
long enough to cover the brave fellows with two feet of earth. That’s
about all a soldier can expect these days.”

“I can guess what’s in your mind when you sigh that way, Amos. You’re
wondering whether your brother Tom is still alive, or has found a
grave like hundreds of thousands of others in this terrible war.”

“We’ve reason to believe he changed his name and joined the British
forces, not caring much whether he survived or perished,” said Amos,
with a look of pain on his young face. “You know he always was a
reckless fellow. He is nearly ten years older than I. Father was
very strict, and couldn’t understand that high-spirited Tom was one
of those who could be led, but never driven. Then came that awful
accusation--oh! it makes me shiver to think of that time.”

“Your father accused Tom of taking his pocketbook from a drawer of his
desk, and everything seemed to point to him as the thief. You say Tom
denied being guilty but was too proud to say anything more. And so he
was driven from home, and has never been seen since that time--is that
it, Amos?”

“Yes, though I’ve had a few lines from him about once in six months,”
replied the other boy, slowly. “First he went to California; then I
heard from him in Japan; and the last time it was in England, where he
said he had enlisted under another name, and meant to fight for the
Allies, not caring much what happened.”

“Did your father ever know you had heard from him?” asked Jack, as he
continued to use his eyes to advantage, and examine the surrounding
country from the elevated lookout.

“I didn’t dare show him the postcards that came to me,” replied Amos.
“He is such a stern martinet, you know, or rather was up to a month
ago, when that queer thing happened. Father made a name for himself as
a soldier during the Spanish war. He had told me to consider that my
brother was dead, and so I was afraid to tell him about those cards. If
our mother had only lived all this terrible trouble would never have
happened, for she knew how to handle high-spirited Tom.”

“Tell me again about that day the discovery was made, Amos; of course
I’ve heard the story, but I’d like to get it all fresh in my mind.”

“It happened in this way,” replied the other, who had come to lean on
his cousin more or less since they had grown to be chums, “one of the
drawers of father’s desk seemed to stick with the pile of papers in it,
and he asked me to get it out. I can see him now, sitting there and
watching me work at it, with that set look on his face that has been
there ever since he sent poor Tom away.”

“One of the papers was missing, you told me, and you thrust your hand
in where the drawer had come from so as to get hold of it?” remarked
Jack, eagerly, as though in imagination he could picture the intensely
thrilling scene.

“Yes, and when I hastily drew my hand out and held up what I had found
there in the cavity where the drawer had been I thought my father would
fall back dead in his chair, he was so stunned. His face turned as
white as chalk, and he held his breath ever so long.”

“It was the lost pocketbook, of course?” continued Jack.

“Nothing less,” said Amos, tragically; “you see, it must have been
lying on top of all those papers and was dragged off when the drawer
was opened long ago. Every cent was in it untouched. Father swooned
away with the shock, and has never been himself since. He can’t sleep
nights, and keeps muttering all the while about his cruel injustice to
poor Tom.”

“Of course you showed him the cards from your brother, Amos?”

“Yes, as soon as he was in a condition to understand,” replied the
other. “From that hour he has had only one thing in his mind, which was
that some one must find Tom and fetch him home. Father says he can’t
live much longer, and that he is praying every day that he might ask
his boy to forgive him before he goes.”

“And so we’ve come across to try and find Tom,” Jack went on to say,
“though since he’s changed his name it’s like looking for a needle in
a haystack; but we’ve managed to pick up a clue, and there’s a faint
chance of our running across him before a great while.”

“Oh! I hope so, I hope so, Jack,” said the other, fervently. “Every
time I shut my eyes I seem to see poor father’s face before me. The
look of pain on it haunts me. I would give almost anything if only I
could find Tom and take him back home with me. I believe it would give
father new life. But what a small chance we’ve got to run across my
brother in an army of half a million men, when we’re not even sure of
the name he’s known by. He may have fallen long ago in one of those
fierce drives the Germans made on the British lines.”

“Keep hoping for the best, Amos,” the Western boy told him, cheerily,
for Jack was always seeing the silver lining in the cloud. “Something
whispers to me that sooner or later we’re bound to succeed, and that
when we start back across the Atlantic we’ll have your brother Tom in
tow. But there’s one thing we’ve got to make sure of, and that is to
keep clear of the Germans. Once we fall into their hands they’d send
us into Germany as prisoners of war, no matter how we proved we were
American boys. And that would ruin our game.”

“So far we’ve been helped in a lot of ways by the Allied officers,”
remarked Amos, trying to pluck up fresh courage and hope. “My father
happened to have good friends among the military people over in
England, and they gave me a paper that has been worth a heap to us
here. Only for that we’d never have been allowed to get as far as we
have toward the firing line. But what are you staring so hard at, Jack?”

The other for answer drew his companion still further down as though
he had made an unpleasant discovery that promised them fresh trouble.
Accustomed to the great distances of the Western prairies, Jack’s eyes
were like those of the eagle, and he could see objects that might have
passed unheeded by others.

“There’s something moving over yonder where that low hill rises,” he
hastened to inform Amos. “If you look close you can see a whole string
of objects bobbing up and down as if on galloping horses. I think,
Amos, they are the little pennons at the tip-end of Uhlan lances; and
that a detachment of the rough-riding corps must be coming this way!”

“Then they’ll be pretty sure to head for this windmill as soon as they
round the base of the hill,” exclaimed Amos, hurriedly, looking much
concerned.

“It’s apt to draw them as the needle is attracted to the pole,”
ventured the second boy. “In this country every place that affords a
lookout is taken advantage of by friend and foe alike. Which means
that since it’s too late now for us to skip out without being seen and
chased, we’ll have to hide ourselves here and wait for the coast to
clear. Come, there’s no time to lose, Amos!”




CHAPTER II. A MOMENT OF PERIL.


Both boys seemed as active as cats; and evidently Jack must have looked
around him with an eye to a possible hiding-place for he immediately
led his companion to a cavity into which they could crawl and remain
unseen.

They only waited long enough to make sure it was a band of horsemen
turning the hill, that they were beyond doubt Uhlans, and that they
were now heading in a direct line for the windmill.

“That settles it,” observed Jack, decisively. “They mean to make use of
this observation post; so let’s dodge out of sight, Amos.”

A minute later and both boys were huddling under cover at a place where
some of the wreckage of the arm of the sail together with other debris
had been thrown.

“Let’s hope none of them think it worth while to stick a sword in here
to see what’s under all this stuff,” ventured Amos.

“I hardly think they’ll go to any bother,” his companion observed.
“You see, when these Uhlans are riding over hostile territory they are
always in a big hurry to cover as much ground as they can. They stir up
a hornets’ nest wherever they go, and the quicker they change base the
better for them. I reckon a couple of the officers will climb up here
with their field-glasses so as to take an observation. Then they’ll be
off again, and only hit the high places as they ride away.”

“They can tell easily enough that there’ve been warm times around this
windmill a short time back,” suggested Amos. “Let’s hope their powerful
glasses show them a bunch of the British forces moving this way. That
would help hurry them along, according to my notion.”

“’Sh! keep still now, because they’re getting close up. Use your ears
all you want to, but say nothing even in a whisper.”

Thrilled by the fact that danger was hovering over them, the boys
crouched there in their place of concealment and waited to ascertain
what would happen. Although Amos did not claim to possess such acute
hearing as his chum, he too could by now catch the thud of many horses’
hoofs beating on the earth. The sound grew in volume constantly,
showing that the Uhlan party must be heading directly toward the site
of the Dutch windmill, just as Jack had figured would be the case.

Suddenly the heavy beat of many hoofs ceased, and the concealed boys
could hear a clanking of accoutrements, accompanied by snorts of horses
brought to a standstill.

Jack nudged his comrade to signify that the crisis had arrived. Then
they caught the sound of heavy voices, and the guttural nature of the
utterance, so different from French or even English, told them it was
German, though as yet no word came distinctly to their ears.

Some one was undoubtedly climbing the ladder that led to the top of
the concrete and stone foundation of the windmill; Jack could tell
this from the slight quivering sensation that he felt. As he had
anticipated, the Uhlan meant to utilize the windmill as a lookout. He
only hoped that a short confinement in their uncomfortable quarters
might be the whole extent of the experience to which he and Amos would
be subjected.

Louder came the voices. The speakers were now close at hand, and had
evidently succeeded in gaining the flat top of the structure without
any accident on account of the shaky ladder giving way under their
weight.

It happened that both boys had a smattering of the German language.
On the way over they had spent many hours on deck brushing up their
knowledge from books secured with that very idea in view. Hence
they could make out fairly well what was said, though at times the
translation might seem a little hazy, and subject to doubt.

The party with the rasping voice seemed to be the leading officer,
for he presently ordered some one else to climb further up, using
the perpendicular arm of the windmill for the purpose, so as to get a
better view of the surrounding country from its apex.

The hidden boys could hear the shaky arm groan under the weight of the
climber, while the ragged remnant of the sail flapped in the breeze.
Every second they anticipated a crash that would tell of disaster, but
it did not come; and Jack realized that nothing was too venturesome for
those recklessly hard riders.

Evidently the officer with the glasses must have reached the point
which he had been aiming for, since presently he started making his
report, the man below interrupting occasionally to ask pertinent
questions.

From his lofty eyrie the one on the lookout must have been able to scan
considerable territory, for he reported that only in one direction was
there any sign of the enemy in force. Off toward the east he could
see artillery in motion, accompanied by a regiment or two of British
territorials, and evidently heading for the front to take their place
in the battle line.

Further questioning revealed the fact that an aeroplane was in sight,
apparently belonging to the Allies, and evidently scouting in the
interests of the new field battery that was seeking a position where it
could do the most damage to the trenches of the invaders.

The presence of this speedy air-craft seemed to make the commander of
the Uhlans somewhat uneasy. He knew how easily the birdman could swoop
down toward them and drop a few bombs with the intention of doing fell
execution in their midst. If the air scout had manifested any interest
in their presence there, and headed toward the spot, undoubtedly a
hoarse command would have caused a hurried scattering of the rough
riders, just as wild ducks separate when the eagle darts down for his
dinner.

Now the observer was going down again to join his chief, who possibly
would want to ask a few more questions before definitely deciding on
the course they must take after leaving the windmill.

Amos was almost holding his breath because of the suspense. The Uhlan
captain had seated himself on the pile of rubbish and was now within
two feet of where the boys lay in concealment. It seemed to the anxious
Amos that the very beating of his heart would betray them, so wildly
was it pounding against his ribs.

Once again did the captain fling his queries at the other. Surrounded
as they were with hostile forces it meant considerable to the Uhlans
that they pick out the line of least resistance. It was also of
importance to them that they appear in places where German soldiers
were least expected. In this way, by the very boldness of their dash,
they might help strike terror to the hearts of the villagers, wherever
a collection of houses had still escaped the general destruction that
had visited that sadly harassed section of country.

Amos was undoubtedly a better German scholar than his Western cousin,
and could therefore understand what was passing between the two men.
Jack felt him give a violent start once or twice, from which he guessed
the other had caught something said which had seemed to have escaped
his ears. It was no time to indulge in a whisper, however, and so
he had to possess his soul in patience, and wait for a more fitting
opportunity to learn what had upset his chum.

Once the Uhlan captain spoke of the fierce fight that must have taken
place at the battered windmill, showing that he had read all the signs
aright, even to the freshly turned earth over under the willow tree on
the bank of the little brooklet near by.

There was a note of pride in his raspy voice when he spoke of the
apparent fact that those who had used the buttress of the windmill for
a fort must have held out until every man of them had been slain. In
the eyes of a German such devotion to the dearly beloved Fatherland was
only what might be expected.

When the captain rose from his hard seat, Amos for one terrible moment
feared that the catastrophe he had dreaded was about to descend upon
them, for he heard the second man make a remark that brought things
directly home.

“Do you think our brave comrades could have found and buried all those
who fell here, Captain, after first accounting for scores of the
detested British?” was what he said.

Even as he spoke he bent down and tried to see under the pile of
wreckage; and certainly both boys held their breath. But Fortune was
kind to them, for it happened that the sun was under a cloud, and the
man’s eyes could not penetrate the gloom that lay around them.

“Even if they did not, what does it matter?” remarked the commander.
“A soldier needs no tomb. It is enough that he has done his duty
toward his country and his emperor. If there should by chance be a
body uncared for it will soon be buried just the same. Come, let us be
going, Lieutenant Krueger. The horses will be all the fresher for this
short halt. Twenty miles we should cover before sunset, and strike
terror to thousands of French hearts with our passage through the land!”

Yes, thank fortune they were going now. The eyes of the lieutenant had
been unequal to the task of seeing what lay under all that piled-up
rubbish; and he did not think it worth while to thrust in with his
sword. Amos was breathing freely again, though far from easy in his
mind.

Now they knew the men were climbing down from the elevation. The horses
had become restive, as though eager to be once more on the mad gallop
to which they were so accustomed. Amos had reached out his hand and
found that of his chum, to which he was clinging, squeezing Jack’s
fingers convulsively as though he might be laboring under a tremendous
strain.

“In luck again, you see, Amos,” whispered Jack, managing to get his
lips close to the ear of his companion. “They’re going off in a hurry,
and without finding us. Why, you’re quivering like a leaf, I do
believe. What ails you, old chap?”

“Oh! then you didn’t hear what he said, or you wouldn’t be taking it so
cool,” replied Amos, in a guarded tone, and trying at the same time to
control his voice, which trembled in spite of him.

“Well, I own up I did miss some of his growl, but what of that?”
confessed Jack. “Was there anything in particular he said that meant
trouble for you and me?”

“Yes, yes,” answered the other, in a gasp. “He told the lieutenant they
wouldn’t want to leave such a splendid lookout to be used by the enemy,
and that it must be destroyed!”

“What, this windmill, do you mean?” demanded Jack, himself thrilled by
the news.

“He said they ought to leave a bomb with a short fuse behind them, and
the last man away would put a match to it!” Amos volunteered.

The Western boy may have been startled by what he heard, but it was
Jack’s way never to show the white feather. He even whistled softly
half under his breath; for the trampling of many hoofs down below
served to make it impossible for ordinary sounds to be heard, so there
seemed no possible danger of the chums being betrayed by their low
conversation.

“That’s a nice outlook I must say,” chuckled Jack, pretending to make
light of the threatening peril. “For one, I’m not hankering to climb
the golden stairs in such a hurry. I tell you what we’ve got to do,
Amos.”

“Wish you would, Jack, and be quick about it,” urged the other. “There,
some of them are riding off right now, and the rest will follow on
their heels. Then that last man is to touch a match to the fuse and
hurry away. They expect to see the mill go shooting skyward in pieces
before they get far off.”

“What d’ye reckon we’ll be doing along about that time, I’d like to
know?” chuckled Jack. “Let’s crawl out of this in a hurry, so as to be
ready to act. Then when we glimpse that last rider whooping it up in a
hurry you’ll see how fast I’ll drop down the old ladder and jump on
that burning fuse.”

“Then you don’t think we’d better run for it, Jack? You reckon they
might see us and give chase? I guess you’re right about that, too. But
listen, isn’t that the clatter of a single horse starting off with a
rush?”

“Yes, there goes the man who fired the fuse; it’s time we were on the
move if we want to stamp out that slow match,” and Jack as he spoke
jumped for the ladder.




CHAPTER III. THE BATTLE IN THE AIR.


“Let me go first, won’t you, Jack, please?”

There was no time for argument, so the other stepped aside and
permitted his chum to pass down the ladder that led from the lower part
of the structure. Since haste was a prime object with the boys just
then it can be understood that they made record time, and were at the
bottom almost “between breaths,” as Jack put it.

“I hear it sputtering somewhere!” exclaimed Amos, excitedly, as he
turned this way and that without apparently being able to make any sort
of discovery.

“And I can smell burnt powder plainly!” echoed Jack, not content to
stand still and look around, but beginning a hasty search.

It was a moment of intense anxiety to both lads. They could not tell
how long a fuse had been left by the trooper who was the last to ride
away. He had seemed to be in something of a hurry, though this might
spring from a desire to catch up with his comrades before they had gone
very far on their way.

Jack used common-sense in his search. He noted first of all which way
the air current was setting, and this told him the fumes of the burning
powder must be coming toward him from a certain quarter.

When the other boy, actually shivering with suspense, saw Jack give a
sudden leap forward and strike downward with his foot he judged that
the other must have made an important discovery of some sort.

“Did you find it?” he asked, eagerly.

“Yes, come here and see,” Jack told him.

Upon looking, Amos discovered the bomb, which was only a small
affair, though no doubt of tremendous power, for those Germans were
master-hands at manufacturing terrible weapons of destruction,
chemistry being one of their strongest holds.

“Oh! you got it just in time, seems like, Jack,” observed Amos, as he
noted the short fuse remaining after his cousin had extinguished the
fire.

“It might have lasted half a minute longer, I reckon,” said Jack,
coolly. “Plenty of time for us to get clear, if only we hadn’t been
afraid of being seen by the cavalrymen.”

“What next?” demanded Amos, who many times felt willing to put the
responsibility of affairs on the broad shoulders of his chum.

“We must get out of this, that’s sure,” replied Jack. “The only thing I
don’t like is that when there isn’t an explosion that trooper may think
it his duty to gallop back here again so as to start things afresh.”

“But we ought to be somewhere among the bushes by that time, hadn’t
we?” suggested Amos, uneasily.

“I have a better plan than that,” he was informed. “By now the man who
fired the fuse is out of sight. I imagine he has drawn in his horse,
and is waiting to hear the explosion. Amos, get outside where you can
skip along when I come rushing out in a big hurry.”

“Are you meaning to put a match to the fuse again?” asked Amos.

“Yes, there is no danger of it’s going off before we get away; but
don’t stop to argue about it, please. It’s the best thing we can do.”

Accordingly Amos bustled off, and as soon as he had left the interior
of the old windmill structure, Jack scratched a match. He joined his
chum a few seconds later.

“Now streak it like fun!” he exclaimed, and the pair started off as
fast as they could run.

Jack had figured it all out, and made certain that they were headed
in the right direction. He did not fancy running slap up against that
trooper returning to see why the bomb failed to explode.

Having used up about all the time he had figured on, Jack suddenly drew
his companion down to the ground.

“We’re safe enough here,” he gasped. “Now watch and see what happens!”

He had hardly spoken when there came a tremendous shock, such as both
of them had felt when a violent burst of thunder followed close on the
heels of a flash of lightning during an electrical storm.

“Whee!” ejaculated Amos as, looking backward, he saw the windmill being
hurled skyward in many fragments.

[Illustration: Saw the windmill being hurled skyward in many
fragments.--_Page 34._]

They heard the patter of the scattered parts falling back to earth.
Then came a heavy thud of horse’s hoofs from a point not far distant.

“There, you see he was riding back to make sure of his work,” said
Jack, meaning, of course, the trooper to whom had been assigned the
task of rendering the windmill useless as a conning tower for the
Allies. “When those Germans get an order they believe in carrying it
out, no matter the cost.”

“I hope he’s satisfied now,” remarked the second boy. “It seems that he
didn’t glimpse us running either, which I count a lucky thing.”

“Yes, because he might have chased after us, and thought it fun to jab
us with the sharp tip of that lance he carries,” chuckled Jack.
“These Uhlans make me think of certain Western Indians I used to meet
up with when on the ranch. For the life of me I can’t understand what
use they make of such an old-fashioned weapon as a lance in these days
of Maxims and modern firearms. Still, they know what they’re doing.”

“Nothing to keep us from skipping out now, is there, Jack?”

“Surely not, and we’ll write down the adventure of the windmill as a
stirring memory of this war business. Come on, Amos.”

“I see you’re heading toward the east, and I take it you mean to strike
that bunch of British making for the front? Everywhere we go we keep
on asking for information concerning one Frank Bradford; but so far we
don’t seem to have met with any great good luck. Still, I’m hoping for
the best. With such a chum as you at my right hand, a fellow would be
silly to despair.”

“It’s a long lane that has no turning, remember,” remarked Jack, as
they commenced to walk along at a smart pace.

“My brother simply told me in one of his short letters that he had
taken that name because it belonged to our mother, who was a Bradford.
I’m certain it was under it he must have enlisted. Just how he could
get a berth in the British army, being by birth an American, puzzles
me; but then he may have hoodwinked them about that; and they were in
such need of likely fellows as Frank, they shut their eyes and took him
on.”

So they conversed as they walked along. Half a mile was soon covered.
Jack had learned to keep his eyes about him constantly. It was the
education of the ranch that caused him to do this more than any
suspicion of threatening peril. So it came about he again made a
discovery that Amos failed to note.

“Look up, Amos!” he exclaimed, suddenly.

“Why, there’s another aeroplane!” cried the other, as he obeyed; “two
of them in fact, making three in all. The air is full of the big
dragon-flies, seems like; and Jack, wouldn’t you say two of them are
manœuvring around the other one that’s built along different lines?”

“Unless I miss my guess,” said Jack, soberly, “that’s a German machine.
They use the Taube model almost exclusively, as it seems to answer
their purposes. Now, I’ve got a notion that Taube pilot must have been
doing some scouting, and was trying to make his own lines when he was
cut off by these aeroplanes of the Allies. Look how they block his
efforts to get past, will you? He rises and falls, but every time one
of the other machines is in the way.”

“There, did you see that puff of smoke from the German craft?” cried
Amos. “Yes, and both of the others are shooting, too. Why, Jack, just
to think of it; we’re watching a regular battle in the air between
rival monoplanes! Doesn’t it make your blood tingle to see them
manœuvre?”

“The Taube man is getting in hot quarters, I should say,” observed the
ranch boy, as they stood and stared. “There goes a gun from over where
the British force is advancing; yes, and listen to the bombardment,
would you? They are firing shrapnel. You can see the white puffs of
smoke where the shells burst.”

“He’s doing his best to get clear, for a fact, Jack. That pilot is
daring enough, and so far seems to have held his own. Somehow I can’t
help but admire him, even if our sympathies are with the Allies.”

“A brave man is worth admiring, no matter on which side he fights,” was
the comment of the second boy; “but there isn’t much chance he’ll be
able to slip by his enemies. They’re too swift for the Taube man, it
seems like. And when he drops down, those gunners are going to fairly
pelt him with shrapnel.”

“Oh! there he goes with a swoop!” gasped Amos; “but no, he seems to
recover, and holds his own still. He’s a sure-enough jim-dandy pilot,
let me tell you, Jack! Few bird men could have done that dip and come
up smiling again.”

“Well, there’s no need of our standing here any longer,” observed
the other boy. “We can watch while we walk along. I’d hate to miss
connections with that troop, for somehow or other I keep hoping we may
run across a clue worth while.”

This seemed to suit Amos very well, and they continued their tramp,
keeping up a watch of the strange fight that was going on far up toward
the fleecy clouds. If either of them stumbled occasionally on account
of the deep interest they were taking in the wonderful exhibition of
skill and daring being paraded before their eyes it was not to be
wondered at under the circumstances.

The almost incessant roar of the guns, together with the crash of
bursting shrapnel shells far above them had effectually drowned that
dull, distant sound which from time to time had come to their ears,
being caused by heavy ordnance battering some fortified place near the
coast. Jack had even suggested that it might be the British battleships
bombarding Zeebrugge, in order to damage the submarine base the Kaiser
had instituted there.

Twice again did Amos have occasion to declare he believed the Taube had
certainly received its finishing stroke, for it acted in an eccentric
manner, and seemed to flutter like a wounded eagle of the skies. When
on both occasions he saw that it recovered in time to elude the swoop
of the Allies’ machines his praise grew louder than ever.

“I’m almost ready to wish that fellow gets away scot-free, Jack; he
certainly deserves to win out!” he declared, enthusiastically.

“I reckon he’s got something with him he considers worth fighting for
to the last gasp,” remarked the other; “but every minute this thing
keeps up his chances decrease. He makes me think of a winded steer
tottering along, and so exhausted that it seems a shame to rope him.
There, that time he must have been badly battered when the shrapnel
burst close alongside!”

“He’s winging down again, all right!” exclaimed Amos, “and this time it
means he’s got to the end of his rope. His engine has been put out of
commission most likely; and, Jack, see, he’s heading right at us!”

“That’s right!” echoed the other; “and p’raps we’ll be in at the death,
after all!”

The Taube was falling very fast, despite every effort of the expert
pilot to volplane earthward without the use of his engine. Apparently
the machine must have been badly crippled by the shower of shrapnel to
which it was lately exposed, and in addition the daring aviator may
have received wounds that prevented him from properly fulfilling his
duties.

As the two boys stood there staring, they saw the aeroplane sailing
lower and lower until it seemed to be almost skimming the surface of
the earth.

“There! he’s jumped out into that patch of bushes over yonder!”
exclaimed Amos in renewed excitement, “and the machine has pitched down
further on. He did his level best, Jack, but the game was too one-sided
for him. Wonder is he living or dead?”




CHAPTER IV. THE TELL-TALE CHART.


Jack noticed that the other two aeroplanes had withdrawn as though the
pilots felt satisfied with having hurled the Taube to the ground. That
particular section of country was so rough that they evidently had
no intention of trying to effect a landing. Amos even suggested that
possibly they had not come out of the encounter unscathed, and that the
aviators were glad of a chance to retire from the battle in the air.

“We must see how badly he is hurt, Amos,” said the Western boy, as he
started toward the spot where the venturesome birdman had plunged from
his falling machine into the scrub bushes.

“Yes, I wouldn’t feel right unless we did that,” agreed Amos, who
possessed a tender heart, and had once upon a time subscribed to the
rules governing the conduct of the Boy Scouts of America.

They were quickly on the spot, and looking to the right and the left in
the endeavor to locate the stricken aviator.

“There he is, Jack!” said Amos, suddenly, gripping the arm of his chum
as he spoke. “Down on his hands and knees, too, as if he might be
searching for something he had lost. Shall we go closer and see if he’s
badly hurt? I think we ought to do what little we can for the plucky
chap.”

Evidently this was what Jack had in mind, for he immediately started
forward. The Taube pilot heard them coming and looked up. His face was
streaked with blood and dirt, and altogether he presented a sad picture.

At sight of two boys approaching him instead of grown men garbed in the
khaki of British soldiers, he seemed astonished. If he had intended
to draw a weapon and sell his life dearly he changed his mind, for
now he was holding up both hands. To the ranch boy that was an old
and familiar sign of surrender. He had seen it used on many occasions
during his experience in the West.

“Do you understand English?” was the first thing Jack asked as he and
Amos drew near the wounded airman, still kneeling there.

The other nodded his head in the affirmative. He was eying them
suspiciously, as though he could not understand who and what they were,
for English boys were not supposed to form a part of the army sent
across the Channel.

“I haf knowledge of the language if I cannot speak same much,” he told
them.

“Well, first of all, we’re American boys, not English, you understand.
We’re wanting to look after your wounds, if you care to let us,” Jack
went on to say, at the same time smiling pleasantly.

“Is it to be a prisoner you mean?” demanded the birdman, suspiciously.

“Not as far as we’re concerned,” Jack hastened to assure him. “After
we’ve fixed you up you can go your way for all of us; though you would
do well to hide until night comes along, before trying to make your own
lines. Now, we’re in something of a hurry, so let’s look you over.”

He went about doing so with a business-like air that was convincing.
The wrecked air-pilot may have been loth at first to let mere boys try
to attend to his hurts, but he soon realized his mistake, and submitted
willingly.

There were numerous scratches and small contusions, but these amounted
to little, and, after being washed with some water Jack carried in a
canteen, could be left to time to heal. The worst thing was a fractured
left arm, which must have been very painful, though the man never
uttered a groan when Jack dexterously set the bones and bound it up as
best he could.

“That’s all we can do for you just now,” he told the aviator, after
completing the job. “As one of those other machines might sail over
this way at any minute to see what has become of you, if you’re wise,
you’ll hurry and hide somewhere so they won’t see you.”

“I thank you very much,” said the man, evidently impressed with the
kindness shown by the two American boys.

“Oh, don’t mention it,” remarked Amos, lightly. “We’re supposed to be
friends of all parties to this scrap. I’ve got a German chum at home I
think heaps of, and his name is Herman Lange. Good-bye, and I want to
say you put up a rattling good fight as long as it lasted.”

Perhaps the other did not wholly understand all of Amos’ remarks, but
he knew the boy was saying nice things about his recent performance, so
he smiled, and insisted on shaking hands with them both.

The last they saw of him he was making for a heavy growth of brush
as though intending to profit by the advice given by the long-headed
Western boy, by lying low until the day was spent, when it would be
safe for him to be abroad.

“For one I’m not sorry I helped ease up that pain a bit,” remarked
Amos, as he and Jack walked away, once more heading toward the quarter
where they knew the British column would be found.

“Same here,” echoed the other. “He was a nervy chap, all right. You
noticed that he never let out a single peep when I shoved those broken
bones together, though I warrant you it must have hurt like fun.”

“I saw you pick up something and ram it in your pocket when we were
coming away--must have been worth your trouble, Jack.”

“It was what the poor chap was hunting for, I reckon,” replied the
second boy, as he thrust a hand inside his coat, and brought out a
roughly folded paper.

“Why, would you believe it, he’s been making a regular chart from away
up there in the clouds!” exclaimed Amos, the instant this paper was
unfolded.

“And besides being a bold air-pilot that German must be a regular
topographical engineer if there is such a thing. I never saw a map
made hurriedly but showing everything so plainly. Here’s marks to show
the positions of the British trenches around Ypres, every big gun
marked with a cross, and even the supply stations and the hangars of
the aeroplanes plainly located. Why, with a chart like this, distances
plotted out and all that, German gunners could shell any position they
chose from a distance of eight or ten miles.”

“A valuable map to fall into the hands of the Kaiser’s men, eh, Jack?”

“I should say yes, Amos; and that was why he hated to lose the same
after going to all the trouble he had to make it.”

“Still, it wouldn’t have been just fair for you to have turned it
over to him, because we went as far as we ought in looking after his
wounds,” suggested Amos.

“Well, we’re supposed to be neutral, though favoring the Allies,
because their aims correspond with what Americans believe in--as
little military government as possible. I’m only wondering whether I
had better tear the chart up, or keep it so as to gain favor with the
commander of the forces over yonder.”

“Keep it, Jack; it may open their hearts to us; you never can tell,”
was the way Amos looked at the matter. So, acting on this advice, the
other boy concluded not to destroy the work of the chart-maker of the
skies.

“There’s one of those other monoplanes starting up again,” said Amos,
pointing.

“I wouldn’t be surprised if the pilot has been given orders to drop
down and take a look around where the Taube fell,” Jack continued.

“Little we care,” chuckled Amos, “so long as he lets us alone. I
wouldn’t like to have a shower of bombs dropped down on me from
overhead. Then didn’t we hear that the Allies were using some sort of
steel arrow with a sharp point that would go through a German helmet,
and do terrible work? Excuse me from making the acquaintance of any
such contraption at close quarters.”

They pushed along, now and then casting a curious glance upward to
note what the man in the aeroplane might be doing. He had not landed,
but made several swoops downward, evidently trying to see what had
happened to the Taube pilot when his machine had smashed to the ground.

Presently Amos sang out that he could hear horses neighing, and there
were also other signs of their being close upon a body of troops
resting while on the way to the front. Evidently there was some sort of
fairly decent road near by, which the artillery and foot soldiers were
utilizing in order to get closer to the trenches where the British,
flanked by the little Belgian army, held their own against the furious
drives of the desperate Germans.

As they came out from the undergrowth they discovered before them for a
distance of half a mile or more numerous clumps of men in khaki. They
had started fires and were evidently trying to heat up something so as
to take away their hunger, as well as warm themselves up, for the day
was a raw and chilly one.

Jack quickly picked out the officers’ mess. There was no display of
swords, no gaudy trimmings as in the old days when men fought hand to
hand. Bitter experience had shown the British leaders that in these
days of Maxims and sharpshooters the object of the enemy was always
to mark down those in command, so as to leave the brigades without
officers, and render them less dangerous in a charge.

“That’s where we want to head,” he told Amos, as he changed his course
slightly. “Unless I’m away off my base these must be what they call
territorials over in England. They are trained all right, but have yet
to smell their first burnt powder. If you find your brother at all,
it’s going to be among this class of recruits.”

“They see us and are pointing this way,” remarked Amos. “I guess they
wonder who and what we are. I’ve fastened that little American flag to
my hat, Jack; it ought to do the business for us, I should think.”

“Yes, actions speak louder than words they say, and Old Glory generally
carries the respect of all nations. But between you and me, Amos, I
don’t seem to fancy that commanding officer any too well. He looks too
puffed up with a sense of his own importance. Before he’s been in the
trenches three days he’s apt to get a lot of that conceit knocked out
of him, or perhaps be punctured by a German bullet.”

“I hope he’ll wear better than he looks,” muttered Amos, who was
feeling very much the same as his companion did about the appearance of
the stout commanding officer. “There are a whole lot of questions I’d
like to get answered; a man of so much consequence wouldn’t condescend
to accommodate me, I’m afraid.”

They soon arrived at a point where they were met by a detail of
khaki-clad soldiers. To the non-commissioned officer in charge of
these, Jack addressed himself.

“We want to speak with the colonel in charge of the column,” he said,
simply.

“I have orders to bring you before him, so keep going right along,” the
sergeant told him in reply, being apparently a brusque man, and, as
Amos said, “without any frills.”

There were fully a dozen officers about the fire where a hot luncheon
was being prepared. Amos secretly admitted to himself that closer
inspection did not seem to impress him any more favorably with the
colonel. He looked as though he suspected them from the start of being
clever German spies.

“Well, who are you, and what have you been doing here so close to the
trenches?” he asked in a disagreeable and harsh voice, frowning at Jack
and Amos, who, however, succeeded in giving him back look for look,
although trying not to show any signs of impudence, for they knew it
would not profit them any to try and “twist the lion’s tail.”

“We are both American boys, Colonel,” said Jack. “If you can spare a
few minutes of your valuable time we will be only too glad to explain
why we are here.”

Those suspicious eyes looked them both over. Apparently the colonel was
not yet convinced that they were harmless.

“Search them!” he ordered, and the sergeant who had led them to the
spot immediately started to obey.

Of course, as luck would have it, almost the first article he drew
forth and handed over to the waiting colonel was the wonderfully
accurate chart made by the German Taube man; and loud exclamations told
how the British officers appreciated the gravity of the find.




CHAPTER V. STRIKING A CLUB.


“Whew! that’s a tough deal, I should say, Jack!” muttered Amos,
evidently somewhat staggered by this new and alarming situation that
had arisen in their fortunes.

“Keep still,” Jack told him. “Leave it to me. I will fix it all up in
good shape when they give me half a chance to explain.”

Meanwhile the colonel and some of his officers were discovering new
features in connection with the hastily made map. They could be heard
expressing their wonder at its accuracy. Loudly did they declare that
its possession by the enemy would be of incalculable injury to the
cause of the Allies, particularly the British forces in Belgium, and
along the French sea coast near Dunkirk and Calais.

The colonel turned upon the two boys. His frown had become heavier
than ever, and that eagle eye of his seemed to be trying to see all the
way down into their very hearts.

“You claim to be Americans,” he thundered, shaking his fat forefinger
at them; “then how is it we find this map covering the disposition of
our concealed batteries, supply stations, reserves, and everything else
upon your person? Can you explain how it comes?”

“Certainly we can, sir,” said Jack promptly. “I was intending to hand
you that chart; indeed, it was partly to do this we headed directly
this way instead of trying to pass around.”

“It looks very suspicious, you must admit, boy!” continued the other,
shaking the paper until it rattled. “Which one of you made it? A clever
piece of work, but one that may cost you dearly.”

“That paper, sir, was dropped by the man in the Taube when his machine
came to the ground, and he jumped out. We helped bind up his hurts
because he was suffering. Unknown to him I picked this chart up nearby,
where he had been hunting for it as we came up. I suppose he made the
map while hovering over the lines of the Allies. As you say, it is a
smart piece of work, so we decided that rather than destroy it we ought
to place it in your hands.”

The officer looked at him keenly. He was not yet wholly convinced,
though the air of candor with which Jack spoke went far toward making
him feel less harshly toward the pair of lads. Besides, with his own
eyes and through his field glasses he must have witnessed the abrupt
descent of the German machine; and the boys had certainly come from
that direction.

He turned and talked with his officers in low tones. Some of them
seemed to be ready to believe Jack’s story, while others looked
skeptical.

Seeing this, Jack realized that it was time to make a move on his
own account in order to shift the tide his way. He quietly drew out
a little pocket case of morocco leather in which he carried several
papers that were of especial value. One, which was already well
thumbed, he selected. The colonel was watching him curiously, and that
gleam of suspicion had not vanished entirely from his heavy, florid
face.

“Would you mind glancing over this paper, sir?” remarked Jack,
apparently in a careless manner. “It will explain who we are to some
extent. Perhaps the name at the bottom, an old friend of my chum’s
father, may be of interest to you.”

That magical document had already eased them over numerous
difficulties, and Jack had faith to believe its usefulness was not yet
past. This is what the colonel of the territorials read:

  “The two boys who bear this letter from me are under my especial
  charge. I hope that all officers in His Majesty’s service in Belgium,
  France, or elsewhere will do whatever they can to assist them to find
  the person for whom they are searching, and who is believed to be in
  the British ranks serving under the name of Frank Bradford.

  (Signed) “KITCHENER.”

No wonder the officer stared, and then bent closer to scan that
wonderful name again. It represented the whole hope of the British
nation just then. K. of K., standing for Kitchener of Khartoum, the
hero of the Soudan campaign, as well as the fighter who had stood
shoulder to shoulder with General Roberts--“Bobs”--in winning the fight
for the country of the Boers in South Africa--to actually have the head
of the army asking as a personal favor that these two American lads be
treated in a friendly way was something quite out of the common.

“We win!” whispered Amos, who had been watching the red face of the
consequential officer steadily as he read the contents of the paper
Jack gave into his charge.

Indeed, a wonderful change had seemingly taken place in the colonel.
Why, he actually smiled upon them as he handed the paper to one of
his subordinates to read, and then thrust out his plump hand to Jack.
If these lads were in the good graces of Lord Kitchener it might be
of advantage to any soldier to do them a favor. Somehow, Amos decided
that when he chose to unbend his dignity the stout colonel was rather
inclined to be a genial sort of man after all.

“I am Colonel Atkins,” he said, affably. “Would you mind favoring me
with your names? A hint over that signature is as good as an order
to any British soldier. You must forgive my suspicions. We are in a
strange country, and are compelled to look upon every one as an enemy
until he proves his right to be called a friend. Those Germans are full
of tricks, we have been told.”

“My name is Jack Maxfield, and that of my cousin, Amos Turner. His
father was a noted military authority in his day, and somehow became
very friendly with Lord Kitchener, I believe out in India, or in
Egypt, long ago. When we came across the water on this errand of ours,
the first thing we did was to see K. of K., who readily gave us this
letter, and wished us every success.”

“As I understand it you are looking for some one; is that correct?”
asked the territorial officer.

“An older brother of my chum, Frank Turner,” replied Jack. “Some years
ago he had an unfortunate rupture with his father, who is a martinet
in his way, and since then Frank has been traveling in many corners
of the world. It has now been discovered that the boy was unjustly
accused, and his father is fairly wild to see him again so as to make
amends for the sad mistake of the past.”

“But what reason have you to suspect that he may be over here in
Belgium where all the fighting is going on?” questioned the soldier.
“There have been quite a number of Americans enlisted in a French
Foreign Legion, I understand. They tell me there are scores if not
hundreds of them among the Canadian recruits drilling at Salisbury
Plains over on the other side of the Channel; but I do not think you
will find many actually in the British army in Flanders.”

“In the first place my brother resembles my father a great deal,” spoke
up Amos, with a touch of pride in his voice. “He has the soldier spirit
in him; it is bred in the bone, you see. So I was not at all surprised
on getting a few lines from him telling that he hoped to find a chance
to enlist on the side of the Allies. He was in London at that time; and
as I knew Frank’s determined ways I never doubted but what he carried
his point and joined the army of Kitchener.”

“So much to his credit then,” declared the other. “If our kin
beyond the water really knew what this war means for the whole
English-speaking world they would give us even more of their sympathy.”

“You do not want to have us searched further then, Colonel?” asked
Jack, with a gleam of amusement in his blue eyes.

The portly officer hemmed and hawed a little to hide his confusion;
then he chuckled.

“Oh, I imagine there is no necessity for that,” he observed, presently.
“Anyone who is carrying a paper signed like this ought to be above
suspicion. You have done us all a service in securing this valuable
chart. If that Taube pilot escaped, bearing such a document with him,
it would be signing the death warrant for hundreds of brave boys in
khaki before another day had rolled around.”

“We are heading for the front in the direction of Ypres. If you are
going that way we would be very glad to accompany you, Colonel,”
said Jack, as he received back the precious document from one of the
officers, carefully folded it again, and replaced it in his bill book.

“Sorry to say that is not our present destination, my lad,” replied the
colonel. “We are under orders to take our stand in another part of the
line where stiffening is needed badly. All of us are eager to get our
first taste of the real fighting. But if we can be of any assistance to
you in other ways you have only to mention the same.”

He had said something aside to one of the other officers, who walked
away to give some sort of order. Almost immediately a file of soldiers
left the roadside camp and started off across fields, heading exactly
in the direction whence the two American boys had just come.

Amos saw all this, and believed he could understand what it meant.

“They’re going to take a look in the brush for the wounded Taube man,”
he told himself. “For one I hope they don’t run across him. Without
his chart he isn’t so very dangerous. I reckon the colonel is afraid
he may be able to draw a duplicate of the same from memory. A soldier
takes as few chances as he can of letting the other side get valuable
information. Yes, the colonel is right, I suppose.”

“The only favor we could ask would be in the line of making inquiries
about the one we’re looking for,” Jack was saying.

“What name did you tell me he was going under?” asked the soldier.
“I failed to pay much attention to that in the paper, for my eye had
meanwhile caught the signature below, which almost took my breath away.”

“My friend’s mother was named Bradford, and he chances to know his
brother was calling himself Frank Bradford, for reasons of his own.”

Jack had hardly spoken when he saw a look of sudden eagerness flash
over the rosy face of the Englishman. It gave him a thrill, for he
seemed to feel that it spelled new hope. Even Amos noticed that
lighting up of the colonel’s eyes, and the uplifting of the heavy
eyebrows.

“My word! now, that is a remarkable thing!” they heard him say, half to
himself.

“Are we to understand from that, sir, you can give us a clue that may
carry us to him whom we are so anxious to find?” demanded Jack, boldly,
believing it wise to strike while the iron was hot.

“I wonder if it could be the same party?” the officer went on to say.
“I was informed his name was Frank Bradford and that he owned up to
being an American. My word! but this is remarkable. Tell me, did your
brother ever serve his time as an air-pilot, young fellow?” turning to
Amos.

“Not before he left home,” returned the boy; “but he was always
intensely interested in aeronautics. If a chance ever came up, I’m sure
he would have made a mighty good birdman.”

“If this is the same Frank Bradford,” muttered the soldier, shaking his
head, “he has already jumped into the front rank of British aviators.
They censored his name in the newspaper accounts, but I chanced to hear
it from one who had met him on the field. It was after he made that
wonderfully daring trip of seventy miles up the Rhine country, dropping
bombs on many fortresses by the way, and striking a note of fear into
countless thousands of German hearts.”

“Oh, I read that story myself, and was thrilled with it,” cried Amos,
excitedly. “Little did I dream it could have been my own brother Frank
who was the reckless aviator of the Allies. Wait, I have his picture
here with me, taken some years ago; perhaps your friend may have
described this man to you so that you could recognize him.”

With trembling hands he held up a small photograph taken with a kodak.
The colonel looked closely. Then he nodded his head in a significant
fashion that made the faithful heart of Amos Turner beat like a
trip-hammer. It seemed as though by the greatest of good fortune he had
come a step nearer success in his mission.




CHAPTER VI. BEHIND THE TRENCHES.


Jack, too, had seen from the manner of the British officer that the
kodak picture looked familiar to him.

“Would you say there was a resemblance between this face and that of
the birdman who drove his aeroplane through the Rhine country?” he
asked.

The soldier nodded his head again.

“It answers to the description given me,” he told them. “My informant
was very particular to mention the heavy head of black hair, the
strong look on the face, and the arched eyebrows. My word! but I
really believe you are on the right track, young fellow. If this Frank
Bradford, who threw the old city of Cologne into a panic, turns out to
be your brother I heartily congratulate you.”

Further talk followed. Amos hoped to be able to pick up more or less
information concerning the present whereabouts of the one he fully
believed must be his brother.

In this endeavor, however, he was doomed to disappointment, for the
officer could give him no further clue. Whether Frank Bradford still
drove his wonderful machine in the service of the Allies, or had been
brought low during some later air raid by the gunfire of the Germans he
could not say.

So Jack took it upon himself to change the subject. He was not as well
posted with regard to the roads of this battle-scarred section of
Belgium as he would like to be.

The colonel, once he had been thawed out by the sight of that inspiring
signature at the bottom of the letter Amos carried, proved very
affable. It has always been the way with these icy Britishers--get
behind the reserve they throw up as they would breastworks, gain
their confidence, and there is nothing they will refuse in the way of
accommodation.

So Jack was permitted to look at a map of the country which the soldier
had in his possession. He even made notes from it which might serve to
assist them on their way to Ypres, that hotbed of fighting, a salient
the Germans seemed bent on recapturing.

So the two boys finally thanked the colonel, who heartily wished them
all possible success in their undertaking.

“At the same time,” he told them at parting, “deep down in my heart I
am hoping you may fail to induce your brother to throw up his job as
one of King George’s boldest fliers. We shall need all the outside help
we can get from our cousins across the sea, before this bloody business
is over with, for these Germans are born fighters, every man-jack of
them.”

When the two boys had proceeded some distance along the muddy road, on
reaching a slight rise they stopped for a minute to look back.

Evidently the order to move had been passed along the line just after
they parted from their new-found friends, for, like a great serpent,
the column of khaki-clad territorials was passing along the road, a
battery of field guns in the van and another bringing up the rear.

It was an inspiring spectacle. No wonder the two American boys felt
their hearts beat with aroused sentiments. At the same time Jack shook
his head sadly as he went on to say:

“How many of them will never go back again to the homes they have left
over in old England? War may seem glorious to those who look on, but it
is terrible. Already we’ve seen some of the destruction that follows in
its track, and I reckon that before we cross the Atlantic again we’ll
have our fill of its horrors.”

Truer words were never spoken. When Jack Maxfield said this he meant it
only in a general way. He could not have possibly foreseen what a wide
stretch of territory their search for Frank Turner would cover, and
what amazing scenes they were fated to gaze upon before the end came.

Once more the chums trudged forward.

Amos was feeling quite “chipper” as he called it, and there was
certainly good cause for this high hope. They had accidentally run
across what seemed to be a strong clue, and the uncertainty of the
past was being relieved. Jack, on his part, was figuring out what he
might get through the hands of the censor in his next letter home. It
was Jack’s avowed intention to become a newspaper man when he entered
the business world, and already he had shown great aptitude along the
line. The descriptions he sent over to a paper which he had arranged
to represent while abroad were graphic and thrilling. His pen pictures
of conditions as he saw them gave an accurate view of the situation.
Although the stern military censor might blue pencil all names, he
could not destroy the vivid word painting as set down by Jack.

Besides this, Jack had contrived a clever little dodge whereby he hoped
to snap off some stirring pictures. His camera was the smallest ever
designed, but it had an expensive lens, and that meant more than half
the battle.

Jack had it concealed, and so arranged matters that he could press the
bulb and snap off a minute picture without any one being the wiser;
and after being developed this could be enlarged to any size required.

No doubt, eventually, that clever little contrivance would get him
into what Amos called a “peck of trouble.” It would doubtless be
confiscated, but Jack hoped he might be able to secure a series of
views well worth working for, ere that catastrophe came about.

As they walked on, the boys were continually coming upon fresh works
of recent strenuous warfare. The army of invasion had held stubbornly
to this region, and an unexpected drive on the part of the reinforced
British had carried the Germans back some five miles or so to where
they had prepared a second line of wonderful trenches.

Here a stone wall had been used as a breastworks, as was proven by the
devastation caused by bursting shells. Great holes yawned in the ground
where monsters from the German siege guns had buried themselves and
exploded. And the boys looked in awe at the piled-up earth, in places
marked with small, rudely fashioned wooden crosses, which told where
late combatants lay side by side, their battle fever forever stilled.

Hardened soldiers might have gazed upon such things unmoved, but these
boys were all unaccustomed to war’s devastation, and many times their
hearts beat in sympathy with the people they saw in the desolated
cottages by the way.

The afternoon was now wearing away and it was only natural for the two
chums to begin to wonder where they were fated to pass the night.

Jack had roughed it many times in the past, when on the cattle range.
He knew what a lone camp under the stars meant, and could stand
exposure about as well as the next one.

All the same Jack was ready to confess that if given a choice he much
preferred a roof over his head. The air felt raw and there was even a
chance that a cold rain might set in before morning, which would be
pretty disagreeable all around.

“I think we’re coming to a village,” he told Amos, who had begun to
lag a little as though leg weary; “or rather what is left of one, for
when the Germans were thrown back they used every house as a barricade,
and before they could be ejected there would often be hardly one stone
left on another, or a wall standing.”

“Yes, you’re right about that, Jack, because I can see houses ahead of
us. I only hope we find some sort of shelter, and a bite to eat, that’s
all. Jack, don’t you think we’ve made good progress since sun-up?”

“We’ve done splendidly, for a fact,” the other readily admitted, “and
there’s good reason you should feel hopeful. On my part I’ve seen and
heard a lot of things today that will make up the liveliest letter I’ve
been able to send across to the _Times_. On a dozen different accounts
I’m glad I came over with you, Amos; and chief of all is the fact that
I can be of assistance.”

“Why, I never could have gotten on without you, Jack. You’ve cheered
me up when I felt blue; you’ve shown me how to ride rough-shod over
difficulties; and if ever I do manage to find my brother Frank,
nine-tenths of the credit will lie at your door. You’re the best chum a
fellow could ever have, and that comes straight from my heart.”

“Well, here we are at the village,” said Jack, to change the
conversation, though he would not have been human if he had not been
touched by these warm-hearted sentiments on the part of his cousin.

“And I guess,” remarked Amos, “they must have pressed the Germans so
closely through here that they had no chance to stop in any numbers,
because you can see the houses are not badly shattered by shells.”

They found a scene of desolation around them, however, after they
entered the village. Once it had undoubtedly been a pretty hamlet, but
this was before the rush of hostile armies across Belgium’s borders.

Fugitives from less favored localities had sought safety among those
who still had roofs over their heads. Curious eyes followed the boys
as they passed along. Doubtless their coming and their well-fed
appearance aroused the wonder and envy of these hapless people who all
through the storms of the winter season had fought against starvation
and freezing.

Soldiers, rumbling artillery trains, galloping horses, and all the
brave trappings of new levies going to the front to become food for
the cannon they were accustomed to see day after day. Then would come
the ambulances and motor vans laden with the groaning victims who were
being taken to field hospitals in the rear of the fighting line. But
when two sturdy lads, one of them wearing a little American flag in his
buttonhole, walked into their village, the natives became interested at
once.

It was known throughout the length and breadth of Belgium that
charitable America had fed their suffering millions all through the
winter. On this account any one who claimed to be a citizen of the
generous republic beyond the sea was welcome in their midst.

So Jack and Amos found smiles upon some of the wan faces around them
as well as wonder and curiosity.

“If we can only run across some one who speaks English I’d call it
lucky,” Amos was saying as they reached the center of the village.

“Here comes the man we want to see, then,” Jack told him. “The rest
are pushing him along as if they knew he could talk with us. My French
isn’t all it should be, and I have to depend on signs half the time so
as to make myself understood. But it’s going to be all right now.”

Jack proved to be a good prophet, for the old man with the white beard
addressed them in very fair English. He told them he had worked in an
American arms factory for several years, and considered that he knew
Yankee customs very well indeed.

“If you wish to spend the night with us,” he continued, “we will do
the best we can to entertain you. In these sad times most of us are
content to find a roof over our heads, and have something to satisfy
our hunger. I will take you to my own poor house, though it is already
crowded with relatives from other parts of our distracted country. Such
accommodations as we have you are quite welcome to.”

Of course the boys thanked him, and hastened to say they would be
satisfied to sleep in a shed, if there was no other place vacant. He
asked them to accompany him, and with quite a procession tagging at
their heels they started off.

It turned out that their host was really an important man in the
village. Jack guessed he must be the mayor or burgomaster, since every
one seemed to defer to his judgment.

One of the first things they noticed as they drew near the cottage
for which they were headed, was a small boy parading up and down
bearing a Belgian flag proudly over his shoulder. He seemed a very
determined-looking youngster, and Amos openly commented on his manifest
patriotism, at which the old man shrugged his shoulders, and then
remarked:

“Of such material are the Belgian people composed. Like the Dutch they
have never been conquered. They dared even to defy the Kaiser and his
millions of fighting men. Belgium will rise again, and be a greater
nation than ever.”

“And the boy?” said Jack, deeply interested.

“He is a wonderful child, whose brave father, Jean Larue, my cousin,
fell fighting in defense of Antwerp. Little Jacques dreams of the day
when he may strike a blow in memory of the father he loved. His mind is
full of plans for trapping the hated Germans, if ever they come this
way again, which Heaven forbid.”

The boy stopped in his military walk to solemnly return the salute Jack
gave him. His face was unusually grave and they could see that the
horrors of war by which little Jacques had been surrounded had done
much to make him older than his years.

Everybody tried to be kind to the American boys, though it was little
they could do after that late pinching winter. But they were given a
small room with a bed in it, which apartment Jack imagined had been
hastily evacuated by some of the kind old burgomaster’s relatives, now
thrown upon his bounty.

“What better could we ask than this?” Amos wanted to know, as he washed
his face and hands in a convenient tin basin.

“I’m not saying a word,” Jack told him. “Fact is I reckon we’re in
clover, when you think of those poor ground hogs we saw yesterday
wallowing in the mud of the trenches, and half frozen at that.”

It was not long before they knew cooking was going on, and, being a
pretty hungry pair of boys, they exchanged pleased glances as they
sniffed the appetizing odors.

The meal was limited, so far as variety went, but there seemed an
abundance for all. Only the old burgomaster sat down with them, though
there were a dozen women and children to be served later on under the
hospitable roof.

Upon making inquiry Jack learned that there was not a single
able-bodied man left in the village.

“All them are fighting alongside our beloved King Albert,” exclaimed
the old man, proudly, “or else have already laid down their lives in
defense of their country.”

All these things made a deep impression on the two American boys. They
wondered how much of the same kind of patriotism would be found over
in their country should an occasion ever arise when hostile armies
occupied the cities and towns of the republic.

After sitting in their little room for an hour, where, by the dim light
of a taper, Jack wrote an account of stirring things he had seen that
day, Amos finally begged him to “close up shop” and go outside a while
to take the air before turning in.

To this Jack offered no objection, for he was feeling very much that
way himself.

The village seemed almost deserted at this hour, for the night was
cloudy as well as raw, and every one had sought shelter. Even the dogs
answered each other with mournful howls, as though they, too, partook
of the general gloom that had fallen upon poor Belgium since that
day early in August when the Teuton horde broke across her neutral
territory and began the most terrible war in all history.

The boys walked out of the quiet village and along the road for a
little distance. It was about this time that Amos drew the attention of
his chum to something that appeared to have caught his eye and puzzled
him. As usual, Amos depended on Jack to solve the mystery.




CHAPTER VII. THE RED LANTERNS IN THE SKY.


“I was just wondering if I could be seeing double, Jack, and if there
are two stars as red as Mars close together,” was what Amos remarked,
after directing the attention of his chum to a certain spot in the
heavens.

Jack gave a low whistle the very moment he looked.

“I can tell you offhand to begin with,” he hastily exclaimed, “that
those are not what you seem to think they are, Amos.”

“Oh! is that so?” exclaimed the other. “What would you say they are?”

“Look closer, Amos, and you can see that they move.”

“That’s a fact, they do seem to swing like the pendulum of a clock. Now
they’re close together, and then they separate more. Jack, it must be
some sort of flying machine up there; perhaps a German Zeppelin.”

“I hardly think so,” returned Jack, slowly. “In the first place no
airship would be apt to remain stationary as those two red lights seem
to be doing.”

“Yes, I guess that’s right,” assented Amos.

“And then again, while the breeze is blowing softly from the direction
of the sea, it’s perfectly still just now. Only once in a while you can
hear the far-away growl of a big gun. So you see we’d surely catch the
rattle of the propeller if that were an aeroplane or an airship.”

“Then how would you explain it, Jack?”

“I don’t know for certain, but on a guess I’d say those red lights
might be a couple of small but powerful lanterns.”

“What! lanterns in the sky?” echoed Amos, quite staggered.

“Perhaps held up by some sort of big kite,” continued Jack, “because
you can see for yourself there’s a bully breeze for flying such a
thing.”

“But Jack, whoever bothered with sending up a kite after dark?” urged
Amos.

“I’ve done the thing myself for a lark, and with a lantern fastened
to it to show where it sailed. Amos, in these war times all sorts of
strange dodges are made use of so as to send important information.”

This time it was Amos who whistled.

“You’ve certainly got me stirred up in great shape, Jack,” he admitted.
“Who but these smart German spies would ever think of sending
information through the enemy’s lines by means of red lanterns attached
to a big kite?”

“A clever dodge, all right,” ventured the Western boy, as they
continued to stand there on the road and watch the colored lights in
the heavens above.

“I wonder what they signify?”

“Those who, far away, are looking through night glasses must know,”
Jack explained. “Two lights mean a certain fact, and three would carry
a different message.”

“It’s a bold man who would risk his life to do such a thing,”
commented Amos, “for if caught at it he must expect to meet the usual
fate of a spy--a file of men, his arms bound, his eyes bandaged, a
rattle of guns, and that would wind up his career.”

“Still, thousands are taking that chance every day, in France, England
and over in Russia,” said Jack. “The spy system of the German army
excels by far anything ever dreamed of by other nations.”

“Of course we’ll never really know the truth about this business, Jack?”

“I was just wondering whether it might be possible to find that out,
and if we ought to meddle with matters that are really no concern of
ours,” was what Jack surprised him by saying.

“Do you really think we could run the thing down, and find the party at
the other end of the kite string?” demanded Amos, at once interested.

“I should say there was a fair chance,” declared the ranch boy, who
figured things out from force of habit on every occasion. “In the first
place you know that a kite must always go up directly against the
wind. There can be no compromise about that.”

“Sure thing,” agreed Amos, already intensely interested.

“Well, it’s easy to gauge the direction of the wind, and, after
noticing how high the kite must be, we can figure about how far away
the man would be standing who held the other end of the cord.”

Jack’s reasoning was so simple and yet so convincing that the other
immediately fell into his way of thinking.

“Let’s do it, Jack!” he exclaimed enthusiastically.

“I take it you mean to try and look up the kite-flyer, eh, Amos?”

“Yes, and give him a little scare in the bargain. That old kite with
its red lights has hung up there long enough.”

“It’s probably fulfilled its mission,” suggested Jack, “and conveyed
the information that it was planned to send. But I’m curious enough to
want to find out whether my theory was sound or not.”

“Then you say go, do you, Jack?”

“Yes, let’s make a start for it,” came the reply. “In the first place
we’ll have to leave the road and cross this field, because we’ve got to
advance straight into the wind.”

“That’s easy,” said Amos, copying the example set by his comrade.

“To begin with we’ve got to put a button on our lips, Amos.”

“I suppose by that you mean we mustn’t talk any more, eh, Jack?”

“Not unless it’s absolutely necessary, and then in the lowest of
whispers.”

Amos, being a sensible boy, could understand why there was need of
silence, and so he kept along at the heels of his cousin, using both
his eyes and his ears, but putting a seal on his tongue.

It was not very difficult to cross the field. The ground proved to be
hard enough to keep their feet from being mired in the mud, and no
unsurmountable obstacles confronted the two boys.

Now and then Jack would pause to take an observation. At such times
he first of all noted the position of the red lights, still in plain
evidence aloft. After that he would make it his business to closely
observe how the wind stood, and in this way get his bearings afresh.

Amos watched his actions with great interest. He had picked up a
certain amount of woodcraft knowledge in his association with the
scouts, but Jack, on the other hand, had acquired his through practical
experience. A year or two spent on a Western cattle ranch is bound to
be an education in itself, and lucky indeed is the boy who can profit
by it.

Presently it became evident to Amos that Jack was proceeding more
carefully. This convinced him that Jack must believe they were now
drawing close to where the end of the cord that held the signal kite
would be found.

Then Amos also noticed there was some sort of low elevation beyond. It
could hardly be called a hill, not being high enough for that, and yet
at the same time it was more than a mere knoll. Out in African Zululand
it would possibly have been called a _kopje_.

Of course, having himself flown kites many a time, Amos readily
recognized the value of such an uplift, free from trees as it was, and
all other objects which were likely to become entangled with the kite
string.

Yes, he saw that Jack was bending lower now, and that he headed in a
bee line for that raised ground. Amos became immediately interested.
Would they make the discovery they anticipated, once they drew closer?

There was no place in the immediate vicinity that offered such
advantages in the way of elevation and freedom from interference. And
accordingly it was with considerable faith that Amos continued to
follow close at the heels of his cousin.

The suspense that ensued was of brief duration. Then Amos began to
follow the dim outlines marking the rounded summit of the squatty
elevation as seen against the clouded heavens.

Suddenly his eyes stopped traveling along that curve and remained
riveted upon one particular point. Some object loomed up there, and
broke the even contour of the “hogback.”

“I do believe that must be a man!” Amos was saying to himself under
his breath, while he kept his eager eyes riveted on the spot; and
after he had followed Jack a little further he was convinced beyond
any possibility of doubt that his guess had been a correct one, for he
plainly saw the object move.

Well, here was the man supposed to be responsible for those signals
in the sky. Undoubtedly he must be an exceedingly bold and clever
secret agent of the Kaiser, a spy who had managed to pick up certain
information, valuable from a military point of view, and was now
industriously engaged in transmitting the same to a German station
miles away. So much was settled. The question Amos was anxious to have
answered was what Jack meant he and his chum should do in the matter.




CHAPTER VIII. THE AWAKENING.


“Amos!”

That was Jack whispering softly in his ear, and the one addressed
squeezed his chum’s arm to let him understand that he heard.

“Do you see him up there?”

“Sure.”

“We want to creep up as close as we can.”

“Then what?”

“When you hear me begin to yell join in, and both rush toward him. Get
that, do you, Amos?”

“Yes, but he’s sure to break the cord, and let the kite go.”

“All right. That answers our purpose,” Jack told him, which certainly
was a fact the other had not considered--they were not trying to
capture the kite that carried the twin red lights; it would be
sufficient if they could induce the unknown spy to break the straining
cord, and let the airy fabric bearing the signal lanterns float into
space beyond, to eventually seek the ground.

Once more the boys moved forward.

The base of the low elevation lay before them, and Jack was now down
on his hands and knees starting to make the ascent. It was beginning
to get real exciting, and Amos felt his heart thumping heavily against
his ribs as he contemplated the surprise and alarm of the spy when they
started to giving tongue.

As they drew closer they could make out what he was doing much better
than before. He had something in his hands, which Amos at once decided
must be the stick about which the stout cord had been wound. That the
kite was of fair size and pulled at times rather strenuously he judged
from the way the unknown used his arms.

Jack seemed to be decidedly clever about this creeping business. Amos
was afraid he could hardly be put in the same class as his cousin.
He even feared that on several occasions he must have inadvertently
snapped some small twig that his knees pressed heavily upon.

The sounds seemed almost like thunder notes to Amos, so keyed up were
the boy’s nerves, but that must have been mostly imagination, for the
man did not appear to have become alarmed by the sound.

There was no longer the slightest doubt concerning his occupation,
for by now Amos could see that he certainly clutched some object that
required considerable effort to hold. The kite probably was very large,
Amos decided.

Perhaps the man had already quite enough of his task, for they could
plainly hear him grumbling to himself, and Amos was sure he caught low
spoken words in unmistakable German.

As seen outlined against the gray sky beyond, the man appeared to be
turned half way around. Instead of looking toward the quarter where the
kite flew, his attention seemed to be wholly taken up in the opposite
direction.

Amos was puzzled to account for this at first, but he quickly grasped
the meaning. Of course, the spy was looking for some sign that would
tell him his message had been seen and understood by those for whom it
was intended.

Jack’s hand fell on the arm of his chum. Although no arrangement had
been made between them, Amos guessed that the time was at hand for the
_coup_ his companion had arranged.

Then Jack gave tongue, and his experience on the cattle ranch in
company with a lively set of cow-punchers had made him a first-class
hand at letting out a fierce whoop.

Amos joined in with what vim he could muster, so that, taken in all,
they managed to create a pretty respectable disturbance around that
region.

It turned out just as Jack had surmised would be the case. The man
who was signalling over the British lines to his German confederates
immediately dropped the end of the cord connected with the kite that
bore the twin red lights.

Amos, still shouting at the top of his voice, saw him duck down
as though meaning to dodge any bullets that might be sent in his
direction. After that, the figure of the spy was seen no more between
them and the gray heavens. Judging from the medley of sounds that came
from the other side of the mound it might be guessed that the man,
either intentionally or through sheer accident, was rolling headlong
down the slope.

Jack stopped yelling, and broke out into a laugh, in which his cousin
naturally joined.

“Look at the kite falling!” the Western boy called out, and Amos turned
just in time to see the twin red lights before they vanished behind
some trees or other obstruction to his view, dropping lower all the
time.

“We’ve done what we aimed to accomplish, Jack,” he went on to say, when
he could catch his voice. “After all, it was as easy as falling off a
log.”

“But I’m afraid he had his message up in the sky, whatever it stood
for, long enough to do its work.”

As Jack said this he clutched hold of the other and whirled him around
again so that his face was toward the northwest.

“That looks like a bursting rocket, as sure as you live!” exclaimed
Amos, as he discovered a shower of colored stars far away, that seemed
to be floating in space.

“It is just that,” admitted his chum.

“If I was over home I’d guess the Glorious Fourth had come around,
Jack, though it’s generally considerably hotter than we’ve got it here.
Do you think that rocket’s got anything to do with this red-fire kite
business?”

“A whole lot, I should say, Amos.”

“You mean it was sent up in answer to his signal?”

“To tell him they saw and understood,” replied Jack.

“Then our work was for nothing,” grumbled Amos.

“Oh, I expected that we’d be too late to prevent the mischief,” the
ranch boy admitted. “All the same, we had the fun of giving the spy a
scare. I reckon he thought a whole regiment of the hated British was on
top of him, by the way he scooted out of here.”

“Could you blame him?” demanded Amos. “Why, if it had been me I think
that cowboy whoop of yours would have given me a cold chill. I’m pretty
sure no German ever heard the equal of it.”

“Thanks. I take that as a compliment,” returned the other laughingly.
“We’d better get out of this now.”

“Is there any danger?” asked Amos.

“None that I know of,” Jack told him, “but you never can tell what
these Germans will do. That fellow may have discovered a trick was
played on him. If he chose to be ugly he might creep back and open fire
on us with his automatic.”

“Whew! standing up here as we are we’d offer a lovely target, with the
sky for a background. Let’s vamoose the ranch, Jack, as I’ve heard you
say lots of times.”

“I’m agreeable,” the other remarked. “There’s always a time for ducking
even as there is for an advance. Come along, Amos.”

They hurried down the hill and started over the field with the
intention of striking the road, so that they might return to the
Belgian village.

About half way across, while stumbling along in the semi-darkness, both
boys were suddenly electrified by seeing a bright flash close at hand,
accompanied by a sharp, spiteful report.

Jack, who had rare presence of mind, and seemed to know just what to
do under any and all conditions, pulled Amos down to the ground. As
they flattened themselves out into as small a compass as possible other
shots rang out in rapid succession. The reports came like the quick
pulsations of Amos’ heart under the pressure of excitement.

When the last shot had sounded Jack started to his feet, half lifting
his companion at the same time.

“Make for the road full tilt!” he called out, and with that they
commenced to run as fast as the nature of the ground permitted.

Perhaps Amos wondered whether the unknown would be satisfied to let
them get away. He may have even anticipated hearing the footfalls of a
pursuer in their rear, and this possibility kept him keyed up to the
top-notch of excitement.

The road proved to be near at hand, and the running boys managed to
reach it without anything out of the way happening.

In his excitement Amos might possibly have turned in the wrong
direction, but Jack had his bearings well in hand, and knew what he was
doing.

They did not stop running with their arrival at the road; in fact, if
anything, they increased their pace. Amos felt willing to keep it up
just as long as his comrade thought best.

Presently they knew the village was at hand, and accordingly Jack
slowed down to a walk. Both of them were breathing heavily, but Amos
felt that he ought to understand what the plan of campaign was to be.

“Will you tell the old burgomaster about this adventure, Jack?” he
asked.

“What’s the use?” the other replied. “There may be other spies around,
and we’d only get ourselves in a peck of trouble. Besides, it wouldn’t
do us any good. We don’t hanker after publicity. Fact is, in times like
these the closer you draw your head in your shell, like the wise old
tortoise, the better you’re off.”

Amos agreed with him. This was nothing new, for, as a rule, the boys
were of one mind, though it might be said that Jack played the part of
leader most of the time.

Upon reaching the humble house at which they were quartered, the boys
soon ascended to their room, being tired, and in sore need of rest.
The village lay there almost in absolute darkness. Here and there a
candle might be burning, but oil was too scarce a commodity to be
recklessly wasted when all things that were needed to be done could be
accomplished in daylight, which cost nothing.

Jack had a treasured electric light in his pocket, a small affair, but
which on numberless occasions he had found very useful. He used it
sparingly because there was scant chance of replenishing the battery
in case it ran out. Flashing it around the small chamber so that both
of them might become familiar with their surroundings, Jack presently
commenced getting ready for bed.

“I’m only meaning to take my shoes and coat off,” he told his cousin,
“and then pull this cover over me.”

No doubt Amos thought this sounded a little suspicious, for he
immediately turned on the other with a question.

“Does that mean you’re half expecting to be routed out of bed before
morning, Jack?”

“Oh, not necessarily,” came the reply, “but I like to feel that I’m
prepared for whatever may happen. Old habits, you know, picked up on
the range when I served as night wrangler to the saddle band of horses,
and there was danger of a stampede, a thunderstorm, or visits from
cattle rustlers. Do just as you think best about it, Amos.”

“What’s good enough for you ought to suit me,” was the reply Amos made.

They had little trouble in getting asleep. The day’s arduous tramp
had tired Amos in particular, and though he started to think over the
exciting events that had come their way since dawn, it was not long
before they became a jumble in his mind, and then gave way to dreams of
the dear ones left at home.

If they awoke at various times during the night it was only to turn
over and go to sleep again. Young, buoyant natures can easily throw off
mental burdens that might keep older persons long wakeful.

Hours passed.

It must have been getting well on toward morning when Amos felt some
one tugging at him. Still half dreaming, he imagined one of his boy
friends must be annoying him while camping out.

“Let up on that, Billy, and go to sleep again,” he muttered; but the
shaking only increased, and now some one was calling in his ear:

“Wake up, Amos, wake up I tell you; we’ve got to get out of this!”

At that Amos threw off the sense of drowsiness, and somehow managed to
understand where he was.

“What’s all that terrible racket, Jack?” he demanded, as his ears
caught a confusion of direful sounds outside.

“It must be a fierce German drive,” the other told him. “They are
pushing the British back toward Ypres, and will likely occupy this
village on their way.”




CHAPTER IX. WHEN THE DRIVE WAS ON.


Amos was already fumbling around for his shoes. Through the open window
came a medley of sounds, constantly growing in volume. Evidently a
battle was on, and the roar of cannon began to be deafening.

Outside, the villagers were greatly excited. They could be seen
hurrying this way and that in the light of breaking dawn. Some were in
full flight heading toward the south, while others doubtless must be
making for underground retreats in the shape of cellars, the existence
of which they were aware of.

“I can’t seem to find one of my shoes,” complained Amos. “Just throw
that light of yours around here a second, won’t you, Jack?”

This being done the missing footgear was located, and soon placed
where it belonged. Meanwhile that dreadful noise grew louder and more
terrifying. It was by this time difficult to converse without shouting.
There were stunning explosions in the air that caused quick flashes as
of lightning. Others made the ground fairly tremble from the violence
of the concussion.

“All ready, Amos?” called Jack presently.

“Give me ten seconds to get my coat on and I’ll be with you!”

Amos was very much excited, as well he might be. Never in all his
life had he listened to such a dreadful combination of awful noises.
It was like half a dozen thunder storms rolled into one. If those
Germans believe in carrying on a campaign of “frightfulness” they were
certainly hewing pretty close to the line right then.

“It’s getting worse all the while, Jack!” he called out.

“Yes, as more guns come into play,” replied the other. “This must be
one of the drives we’ve heard so much about.”

“But we said we believed nothing could push those British chaps out of
the trenches they’d dug themselves into,” said Amos.

“I don’t know how it is,” Jack told him, “but some way has been found
by the Kaiser’s men to break through. Once that happens, you know, the
whole line of defense crumples up like an egg shell.”

“Perhaps they’re using gas shells,” suggested Amos, for they had heard
some talk along those lines from soldiers they had met returning
wounded from the front.

“I wouldn’t put it past them,” said Jack, “you know that as chemists
the Germans lead the world. They firmly believe they are fighting for
their existence as a nation. Are you all ready, Amos?”

Upon the other replying in the affirmative they left the little room
and made their way to the lower part of the house. Here a single lamp
burned and by its meagre light they discovered the old burgomaster, who
looked more solemn than ever.

“The Germans must have broken through the British line of defense,
which was only two miles away from here,” he told them, gravely, “and I
fear it will mean the ruin of all we have left, for the fighting draws
closer all the while, and they must soon be among the houses.”

“Some of the people have gone away,” Jack remarked, “and we think we
ought to get out, too, while there is time.”

“Please yourselves, young messieurs, and it is wise of you, I must say,
though if you choose to remain there is room in the cellar below.”

“Then you mean to stay here and take desperate chances?” the boy asked.

“It is my duty. I could not forsake my children when they need my
counsel so much. It may be that cellar shall be our tomb. Nevertheless
some one must remain to watch over the women and children who cannot
get away.”

Amos was greatly affected on hearing the old man say this. He realized
as never before that heroism is not confined to dashing deeds on the
field of battle. In those days and nights that tried men’s souls
numberless occasions arose wherein humble individuals, often weak
women, proved their right to the claim of heroism, though history would
never blazon their deeds upon its pages.

Impulsively Amos seized the honest hand of the aged burgomaster and
squeezed it. He always considered that he was being honored in having
the privilege of calling him a friend.

“Look, there’s that boy Jacques again, with his Belgian flag!” called
out Jack, pointing to a small figure that was parading up and down just
outside the window.

“He utterly refuses to join the others in the cellar,” said the old
man, “and he is too nimble for my infirm limbs to overtake, so I
must let him take his chances. He is wild over the opportunity to do
something to avenge his father, should the hated men in the spiked
helmets reach here. Alas! I fear poor little Jacques will go to join
his father ere long, when that spirit fills his heart. Those Germans
spare not when the lust of battle is on them.”

Jack also shook hands with the old burgomaster ere leaving.

“I surely hope it may not turn out as badly as you fear,” he said in
parting, after pressing some money into the other’s unwilling palm.
“The drive will be halted before it reaches your place. If a chance
comes to us we will look you up again later. Good-bye!”

The old man somehow had taken quite a fancy to the boys, and it was
evident that he disliked to see them go. He knew what America was like,
and doubtless the peaceful land across the sea appealed more strongly
to him than ever, now that his own beloved country was being overrun
and ruined by a hostile army.

Once outside the house the boys looked about them.

It was no longer dark for day was at hand. Besides, the constant
bursting of those countless enormous shells helped dissipate the gloom,
although in places a low-hanging sea fog made objects assume a weird
appearance.

A few frightened villagers could be seen hurrying past. Some of them
were bearing bundles as though they had hastily gathered their scanty
possessions together, and intended to cut loose from their anchorage,
seeking safety in hurried flight.

Indeed, Amos could not blame them when he listened to all those
dreadful noises, and mentally pictured the desperate scenes that were
likely to occur when the retreating British tried to make a desperate
stand amidst the houses of the already sorely stricken Belgian village.
Perhaps in the end ere they were driven forth hardly one stone of those
humble dwellings would remain on another.

As they passed little Jacques, still marching up and down, Amos patted
the child on the shoulder. There was resolution and courage in the eyes
that looked up at him. Others might be afraid and tremble and weep, but
Jacques was the child of a soldier. The spirit of Jean Larue, who fell
in defense of Antwerp, dwelt within that young heart. The coming of the
Germans only meant to poor little Jacques a possible chance to carry
out the plans for revenge that had of late taken possession of his mind
to the exclusion of everything else.

In leaving the apparently doomed village both of the American boys were
conscious of very heavy hearts. They had already seen enough of war’s
horrors to impress them deeply. The uncertainty concerning the fate of
all those innocent non-combatants grieved them exceedingly.

Still, there was absolutely nothing they could do to render assistance,
and for them to linger there would simply mean unnecessary risk. In the
heat of battle neither one side nor the other would pay any attention
to the fact that they claimed to be Americans and neutrals. They had no
business on the fighting line, and if injured could not complain.

Perhaps Jack felt a keen desire to hang around and see with his own
eyes what a desperate battle looked like. The spirit of the newspaper
correspondent was strong within Jack. But while reckless at times he
could also show considerable caution. Besides, he was not alone now, he
must remember, and the life of Amos was doubly precious just then, in
the estimation of the one who had sent him abroad on that search for
Frank Turner.

On this account Jack curbed his desire to linger and try to see what
took place when the fighting reached the doomed village.

There was little choice in the matter of deciding upon the direction
of their intended flight. The German drive was coming from the north,
and hence only in the opposite quarter could there be any assurance of
safety.

Fortunately the road offered them an opportunity to retreat from the
village without taking to the fields.

They quickly overtook a band of villagers trudging stoically along.
During the long months that had elapsed since the beginning of the
cruel war these poor people had suffered so much that by now they were
growing callous, and accepted every new trial uncomplainingly.

They had seen beloved kindred shot down, had watched their possessions
given to the torch, and in so many ways endured the terrors that come
to a subjugated country that it seemed as though they could weep no
more.

Both boys felt for the poor people. They would have done something to
help them, only there seemed to be no way in which they could be of any
assistance, since it was folly to slow down their pace to correspond
with the snail-like progress of the fugitives.

All this while the noise to the north had continued to grow in volume
until it was simply frightful. Amos had never dreamed there could
be as many big guns on the fighting line from Alsace to the sea as
the Germans had brought to bear upon this one section of the British
defense, possibly only a few miles in extent.

“They boasted that they would batter their way through to Calais,” Amos
called out, as they stood and listened, “and it looks like they are
doing it.”

“Wait,” said wise Jack. “The fury of the drive will exhaust itself.
Those stubborn British never know when they are whipped. They will
hang on like bulldogs until the enemy is tired out, and then block his
way with the reinforcements that must be hurrying up, and which we’ll
soon meet.”

“Then, Jack, you don’t believe the Kaiser will get to Calais as he said
he would, so as to fire his big guns across the Channel on to English
soil?”

“Not this time, anyway,” asserted Jack. “They may win three or four
miles of muddy ground, for which they’ll pay a heavy price, but that
is all. Some of those guns you hear crashing are manned by British
Tommies, and Canadian troops, who are bound to give a good account of
themselves. But the losses will be terrible on both sides, more the
pity. Come, let’s be moving.”




CHAPTER X. THE CHECK LINE.


They trudged along for a time in silence, though both of them kept eyes
and ears open so that they might not lose any portion of the remarkable
war panorama by which they were surrounded.

As they overtook and passed other fugitives from the threatened
village, Amos found himself still pitying the poor souls once again
cast out upon the cold world.

“I wish we could help them,” he said to his chum, “but of course that’s
out of the question. We’re like the ‘babes in the woods’ ourselves. But
by now we must be about the end of the string. The road looks clear
ahead.”

“And I was just thinking,” added Jack, “we hadn’t left the village any
too soon for our health.”

He made a suggestive movement with his hand when saying this, and Amos
guessed the meaning.

“Do you really think the battle has reached there so soon?” he asked as
he stood and listened to the clamor that welled up from their rear.

“Yes,” said Jack; “from the sound of spattering rifle firing I think
the retreating British have taken advantage of the houses. Every stone
cottage will shelter a dozen or so. And as the pursuing Germans come
along with a rush they’ll be met by a murderous fire.”

“Then just as our good old friend the burgomaster said, it will spell
the finish of the village,” sighed Amos; and apparently his chum caught
his meaning in spite of the dreadful din, for he went on to follow up
the thought.

“Yes, the Germans will turn their guns on the place if they meet with a
set-back there, and make it a howling wilderness.”

“Those poor women and youngsters,” groaned Amos.

“It is tough luck,” added Jack, drawing a long breath, “but only the
fortune of war. We’ll see lots more of it before we’re through, I’m
afraid. But by now it strikes me we ought to be meeting the first of
the British reinforcements coming forward to fill the gap and stem the
retreat.”

“Jack, just as you were saying that I caught a new sound--anyhow it
came from a new direction. When there was a little lull in all that
roar of guns I thought I heard the trample of horses’ hoofs and the
rumble of hurrying artillery.”

“You hit the bull’s-eye that time, Amos, for there they come.”

Both boys felt their hearts beat with a quickened vigor as around a
bend in the Belgian road came galloping horses drawing a field piece.
After it appeared a caisson with ammunition, and then other portions of
the battery in quick succession.

“Let’s get out of the way, because they’ll need the whole road,” said
Jack.

“But what can one battery do against all those heavy German guns?”
Amos asked, as the leading horses drew near.

“Oh! this is only a beginning,” he was immediately told by his
companion. “I’ve no doubt for a mile and more back the road is solid
with them, all hurrying to the front. And tens of thousands of troops
must be headed in the same direction, though perhaps they’ll take to
the fields, and leave the roads to the artillery. Now watch, and give
the boys a salute as they go past.”

They stood with their hats in their hands, and as the first field piece
went rumbling by both boys gave a yell, at the same time waving their
headgear.

The grim-looking gunners returned the cheer. Their bronzed faces had an
eager look, as though they scented the battle smoke from afar, and were
wild to get busy.

So they kept streaming past, battery after battery, the officers
shouting their commands, for every one undoubtedly knew exactly where
he was expected to take up a position so as to effectually check the
fierce drive that the German hosts had started.

“There, across the field, you can see them coming,” called out Jack,
after they had waved their hats until their arms were weary.

“The troops, as sure as anything, and on the double-quick at that!”
exclaimed Amos, again thrilled by the sight of the khaki-clad legion
that had suddenly burst into view on the full run, with bayonets
gleaming wickedly, and every man apparently a part of a well-drilled
machine.

“Look, look, Jack, there’s a regiment of Highlanders in their bare
legs, tartans and kilts!” exclaimed Amos. “How fierce they look, Jack!
I don’t wonder that they nearly always carry everything before them.
I’d want to turn tail and run if I saw those boys heading for me. But
what is the matter with them all that we don’t hear the bagpipes; and,
Jack, where are those English cheers we’ve heard so much about?”

“Just give them time,” he was told; “they need all their wind right now
for running. When they strike the line of the Kaiser’s men they’ll do
their shouting.”

“Still they come along, thousands and thousands of them, as if there
was no end to the reserves. What a splendid lot of men they are. It’s
terrible to think of the homes that will never see many of them again.”

“Look closer, Amos, for I really believe those strapping fellows are
Canadians!”

“Yes, I can see the maple leaf on that flag, Jack. And they look as if
they could hardly be kept from whooping it up right now.”

Both boys displayed additional excitement. It almost seemed as though
they might be looking upon fellow Americans, such is the bond existing
between the two neighboring countries that for more than a hundred
years have lived in amity, with not even a fort or blockhouse along the
three thousand miles of boundary line.

“I warrant you, Amos, a lot of those fellows have come from the ranches
in the Northwest Territory. Yes, some of them run as though they might
be more at home on the back of a horse than afoot. Perhaps I know a
number of the boys, for I spent a time on a Saskatchewan cattle ranch.”

The thought caused Jack to follow the passage of the hurrying Canadian
regiment with intense interest. They were, however, too far away for
him to have recognized any familiar faces. Besides, in the trappings
of a soldier a man would look quite different from the cowboy in
sheepskins or leather “chaps” as Jack had known him.

Finally the rear guard turned up. Long before the last of the artillery
train had passed by the boys had seen that some of the batteries left
the road a little further on, making for certain advantageous points
where they could commence to hurl their death-dealing projectiles with
profit.

“Shall we go on again?” asked Amos.

“Yes, because where we happen to be just now the land is low and flat,
and we can see absolutely nothing,” replied Jack.

“I really believe you’re still hankering to glimpse the fighting,” Amos
ventured to say.

“I think I know of a good chance,” the other told him, “and to begin
with we’ll leave the road right here. Follow me, Amos.”

Of course Amos did, for he placed the greatest confidence in his chum’s
judgment.

“Things seem to be going on hotter than ever all along the line,” he
was saying as he kept alongside the other.

“It’s going to be a terrible day, and the surgeons of the Red Cross
will be kept busy every minute of the time,” Jack remarked, as they
hurried along.

Amos had noticed that they were not passing over the fields where the
onrushing British reserves had crossed, since Jack had for some reason
chosen the other side of the road.

As yet Amos had not guessed what his chum had in view, and when his
curiosity had reached a certain pitch he could hold in no longer.

“What’s the idea, Jack?” he asked.

“There’s some sort of mansion close by, which has a tower on the roof,
and the idea struck me we might get a bird’s-eye view of what’s going
on if we chose to climb up there.”

“But perhaps the owner might seriously object, Jack.”

“Don’t let that bother you, Amos,” he was told. “The great German army
stormed through here on the road to Paris. When it was pushed back
by slow degrees in this section nothing worth taking was left. If it
couldn’t be used up or carried away to the Rhine country ten chances to
one it was destroyed, so that the enemy couldn’t have any benefit of
it.”

“Then you think this estate is a ruin, do you?”

“You’ll soon see for yourself what happens when an invading army passes
through a hostile country, for here we are at the place.”

As Jack said this he pointed ahead. Signs of destruction and vandalism
could be seen the very first thing. The stone fence that surrounded the
property had been thrown down in numerous places. Even trees had been
chopped down to afford fire wood for the camp, or else because they
were supposed to interfere with the efficiency of quick-firing guns
that at one time had been planted on the roof or in the tower of the
building.

As the boys advanced they were shocked at the picture of devastation
they saw all around them. Close to the walls of the house all manner
of costly furniture and valuable china ornaments had been ruthlessly
smashed.

“It’s worse than a country fire over in the States,” remarked Amos.
“Why do you suppose they did this thing?”

“Probably to keep the enemy from getting any benefit out of all this
stuff,” explained Jack, “or perhaps just to strike terror to the hearts
of all well-to-do Belgians who declined to welcome the invaders with
open arms.”

“But the house is partly wrecked, too, Jack.”

“Yes, you can see it’s been bombarded,” the other admitted, “and
several shells tore holes right through the walls. One knocked off that
corner; another made this great gap in the ground when it burst. Limbs
were torn from the trees too. And, taken in all, I’d say it must have
been pretty warm in this section about that time.”

“Shall we risk climbing up to the tower?” asked Amos.

“Why not? The house doesn’t look as though it would crumble and
collapse. It would stand another bombardment, I reckon,” and as he
spoke Jack boldly led the way through the open doorway.

The interior was a sad wreck. Piles of plaster lay on the floors,
and several rooms looked as though it might be dangerous to try and
pass through them. Amos glanced this way and that with something of
a shiver. It was as though he half anticipated making some sort of
gruesome discovery amidst those telltale rubbish heaps.

Fortunately, nothing of the kind happened, and after climbing
laboriously for a short time the two boys finally managed to reach the
cupola or tower, where they immediately found themselves amply repaid
for all their trouble with a wonderful panoramic view.




CHAPTER XI. WATCHING THE BATTLE EBB AND FLOW.


“It was worth all the trouble, Jack,” admitted Amos.

They could see far away beyond where the doomed Belgian village
undoubtedly lay. Billows of smoke shrouded most objects, but at times
the wind swept this aside, and at such moments they could obtain
glimpses of the fighting.

In one place they saw solid masses rushing forward with the resistless
power of might, to be met with a blast that cut terrible lanes in their
closely packed ranks.

Amos fairly held his breath as he stared. It seemed almost as though he
might be indulging in a nightmare. Then the powder smoke rolled like a
curtain between, and the view was shut off.

Shells were bursting everywhere, and Jack soon located the hamlet
which they had so recently quitted.

“They’re at it hammer and tongs around the village, I’m afraid, Amos,”
he called out to his companion.

“Have you found out where it’s located, Jack?”

“Yes, if you watch sharp when the smoke fog opens you can glimpse a few
of the houses over that way,” and Jack pointed as he said this.

“Yes, I see it now. And how the shells seem to be raining down on that
spot. I guess the German gunners have got the range to a fraction. How
d’ye think they manage such things, Jack?”

“They have the whole country plotted out to begin with, Amos. And then,
you see, they get tips by wireless right along.”

“Wireless?” echoed Amos.

“In a sense, yes. Look up and you’ll see that there are a dozen
aeroplanes swooping around like hawks, now fluttering over some
particular spot, and dropping a colored signal paper. That is to tell
the gunners just how to fire so as to hit what they’re after. Those
birdmen have a regular code they use to talk with.”

“But surely all of them are not German Taubes, Jack? I can see some
that look different in build.”

“Those belong to the Allies,” Jack declared with conviction.

“But how is it they chase around, often close together, without
interfering with each other?”

“I suppose that’s because they’re all too busy now sending information
of great value to bother with their own little rivalry. Though it may
be they take an occasional crack at each other in passing.”

Amos had conceived a sudden startling thought, and he watched the
evolutions of the rising and falling aeroplanes with additional
interest. It could easily be noticed, however, that the machines of the
Allies monopolized his attention.

“Oh! I wonder if one of them could be my brother Frank,” Jack heard
him saying presently.

“It’s one chance in ten he’s working up there right before our eyes,”
the Western boy admitted.

After that Amos could hardly tear his eyes from the darting aeroplanes.
When he saw little puffs of white smoke breaking close to one of them
and knew that this must be shrapnel shells sent from anti-air craft
German guns, his heart seemed almost in his throat with sudden anxiety.

“Oh! that would be too cruel!” he exclaimed. “If I came all the way
over here to find my brother, only to see him shot down before my very
eyes.”

“Don’t think of it,” Jack told him. “Chances are those are British
airmen, and Frank may be far away from here.”

“Oh! he’s been struck, and is falling!” exclaimed Amos in sudden terror.

“His machine has been put out of commission, it seems, but the pilot
aims to coast down so he can land back of his own lines. And as sure
as you live he’s doing it, too.”

They forgot everything else, because of their intense interest in the
fate of the pilot of the stricken monoplane. A short time later Amos
broke out with half a cheer, such was the excitement he was laboring
under.

“Jack, he’s landed, don’t you think?”

“Reckon he has,” agreed the other.

“And safe behind the British lines.”

“You’re right there, Amos, because the place where he struck is some
distance this side of the village. That brave fellow is all right, even
if his machine was put out of commission.”

“But the others keep at work right along, Jack.”

“They direct the gunfire of both sides, to a considerable extent, and
it would be a hard thing to get along without aeroplanes nowadays.
This war has shown how useful they can be. But look over yonder. I do
believe those are the British reserves we saw, going into action.”

“Oh! you’re right, Jack, for I glimpsed the Highlanders deploying
behind that stone wall. And I think that must be the Canadian regiment
charging with their bayonets.”

“It surely is, because I heard their yells when a shift came in the
wind just then. Oh! shucks! there that smoke has to settle down again
and shut off our view when it was getting so thrilling.”

“To think that the same kind of fierce fighting is going on along miles
of territory. Do you think there’s a chance the Germans may break
through at this point, Jack?”

“They may in small detachments while all the confusion is on, but not
in great force,” Jack replied. “All these things have been anticipated
and prepared for. A battle is like a game of chess, with every move
having a meaning of its own. The general who can best guess the plan of
the enemy, and lay his own to trip him up, is the one who’s bound to
win.”

It continued to be fascinating work to watch the stirring events that
were transpiring. That tower on the top of the wrecked country house
proved a splendid lookout for the two deeply interested boys.

Jack in particular was making it a point to impress all the features of
the action upon his memory. Later on at the first available chance he
meant to incorporate what he had witnessed in a stirring letter that
might thrill the hearts of all those in the home land who read it, even
as his own pulses were quickened just then.

When the smoke pall chose to lift again after quite an interval, Amos
gave a cry of mingled surprise and chagrin.

“Why, Jack, see, they’re gone!”

“You mean the Highlanders who were behind that stone wall, don’t you,
Amos?”

“Yes, not a man of them is left. And, Jack, I don’t seem to see any
stretched out on the ground. Do you think they had to retreat so soon?”

“Hardly that,” the other assured him. “Those Scots are the most
stubborn fellows going. They don’t like to give up anything they’ve
once had possession of. Of course I couldn’t say for certain, but the
chances are they’ve charged out to meet the oncoming Germans face to
face.”

“And they may be bayoneting each other in that awful fog of smoke
further on,” Amos continued. “Oh! it’s terrible, terrible! I never
thought war was so cruel. I always pictured it as glorious, with the
heroes coming home to be crowned as victors. I’ll never think of it
again as I used to. General Sherman was right when he called it what he
did.”

So the changes took place rapidly. It was as though they were looking
through a kaleidoscope. Every puff of air raised the curtain of smoke
in some new section and allowed the absorbed spectators a chance to
look upon phases of the battle they had as yet failed to see.

To think, that all through that long day, while the rival armies dug
new trenches confronting each other, this terrible butchery must
continue, was something to chill the heart.

“Why,” burst out Amos at length, after they had been a long time in the
tower, “you could almost believe the end of the world had come, with
all this noise and fire. They say it won’t be a flood next time but
fire that is going to destroy everything. For one, Jack, I’m beginning
to get enough of this.”

“We’ll stay only a little while longer, Amos. Fact is, we’ll never run
across such a splendid chance as this to watch a big battle. It is
Teuton against Anglo-Saxon now, the first time they’ve been up against
each other for centuries really. And this war will tell which is going
to be the world leaders.”

“If the Kaiser wins we’ll all have to brush up on our German, and
that’s what I don’t like much,” Amos complained.

“If that was the worst of it there’d be little reason for complaining,”
Jack told him. “I suppose German is as fine a language as the next,
once you get your tongue adapted to it.”

“I can see a smudge of smoke where we think the village lies, Jack, and
it’s black smoke, too. Do you think the place has been set afire so as
to drive the British snipers out?”

“I wouldn’t be much surprised, Amos.”

“And those poor, poor peasants, the helpless women and children, what
will become of them?” exclaimed Amos.

“Don’t ask me,” said Jack, with a shiver. “Those who snatched up what
they could get of their possessions and trekked out along the road
leading to the south were wise, after all.”

“Yes,” continued his chum, “they may suffer from the cold, but as they
get further down into France they’ll have kind friends raised up for
them on every hand. I wonder will the burgomaster live through it all,
brave old chap that he was to decide to stay and share the fate of
those who chose to hide in the cellars.”

“And little Jacques,” added the other boy, “what will happen to him
with all those shells bursting, and the British and Germans fighting
hand to hand in the streets of the village? I’m afraid the poor little
fellow won’t be able to trap his hated Prussian as easy as he expected.”

Jack turned to observe some feature of the wonderful panorama disclosed
when rifts occurred in the eddying smoke curtain. It all seemed to
have a decided fascination for him, so that he would surely regret
leaving that eyrie presently, in order to please his cousin.

Even as he looked, almost holding his breath with eagerness, there came
a strange whining sound in the air. Something hurtled past not fifty
feet overhead. Then came a terrible crash that almost knocked both of
the boys down, and caused Amos to cling desperately to the railing of
the cupola lookout.

“That was a shell, Jack!” he gasped, when he could catch his breath.

“It certainly was,” declared the other. “The Germans are using this
tower as a range finder, and we had a narrow escape that time.”




CHAPTER XII. FROM THE CUPOLA LOOKOUT.


“I should say it was lucky!” assented Amos, with an intake of breath;
“did you see how it shattered that tree top when it burst? Looks like a
bolt of lightning had struck it. What would have happened to both of us
if the time limit of explosion had been just a second less?”

Jack turned and looked away off to where those billows of white and
gray and greenish-colored smoke hid most of what was taking place
beyond the shifting screen.

“I wonder where it really came from?” he exclaimed, “and if it was only
a random shot, or did that gunner mean to hit this cupola?”

“Well, I must say you take it mighty cool, Jack!”

“What’s the use of getting worked up over it?” demanded the ranch boy,
who had learned long ago how to control his emotions even under the
most trying conditions.

“But they may bombard us again?” expostulated Amos.

“I give you my word for it, Amos, I won’t wait for a third invitation
to get out. If another shot comes anywhere near here we’ll go down in a
hurry. But I hardly believe that was intentional.”

Amos, however, was hard to convince.

“Of course they’ve got powerful glasses--I mean the officers directing
the fire of that battery?” he ventured.

“That goes without saying, Amos.”

“And if they chanced to look this way they’d see us here, though of
course they couldn’t tell who or what we were. Now, Jack, wouldn’t it
be natural for them to think some high British officers had climbed up
into this lookout so as to make use of it as a watch tower?”

“I must say you put up a reasonable argument there,” admitted Jack.

“Well,” argued Amos, “if they got the notion in their heads that
this deserted chateau was being used as headquarters by the British
commander and his staff, it would be an object with the Germans to drop
a shower of shells hereabouts, with the intention of putting them out
of business.”

Jack seemed quite interested in the theory his chum was so earnestly
putting forward. He even smiled as he turned to look at Amos.

“There’s only one weak place in that argument of yours,” he went on to
say.

“Then tell me what it is, won’t you, Jack?”

“Since that shell dropped in here all of a sudden I should say two full
minutes had gone by,” the Western boy told him.

“What of that, Jack?”

“Only this, Amos, we’ve seen nothing of a second shot anywhere near us.
There’s been plenty of time, and to wipe out the British army staff it
would pay to turn the fire of a whole battery this way; but it hasn’t
been done.”

“Then you believe now that shot was only an accident?” asked Amos.

“Oh! well, some gunner was trying his range, and got it with just
one shell. His next aim was in another quarter, and it may be he did
terrible work. We’ll never know.”

“But you said you’d be willing to clear out of this soon, Jack. I wish
you’d settle on doing so now.”

“I suppose I’ll have to keep my word,” agreed the other, “though
between you and me I haven’t seen half enough of this thrilling
picture. It’s ten times as interesting as looking at one of those war
panoramas like Gettysburg, the Siege of Paris, and all the rest.”

“And a thousand times more terrible,” added Amos, “because we know that
what we’re looking at isn’t a painting on canvas but the real thing.”

“Just give me one more chance to see through a gap in the smoke,”
pleaded Jack. “I’d like to know what became of those men in the kilts,
and with the bare knees.”

“The Highlanders, you mean,” said Amos. “Oh! they’ve found shelter
behind some other stone wall, and are holding their own, I’m dead
certain. Just as you said a while ago the canny Scot keeps a grip on
what he can seize like a bulldog might.”

“Now the breeze has struck up again, Amos, and it’s blowing the smoke
away, like we saw that fog at sea driven off. Use your eyes and tell me
if you can pick out the men from the Scotch hills.”

Jack had hardly ceased speaking when his companion uttered a loud cry,
as though he had made a discovery.

“There they are, flattened out along the ground, and against that small
rise just like so many cats waiting to pounce on a robin. And, Jack,
see what a distance they’ve gained, will you?”

“I’d like to predict that the terrible German drive has reached its
limit in this direction,” said the Western boy, confidently.

“They’re shooting as fast as they can, too, what at I’m not able to
say, for all the smoke. Somewhere beyond there the enemy lies, and I’m
afraid some of those fellows we can see stretched out on the ground
will never take part in another battle.”

“But there’s no sign of them retreating, you notice, Amos. They’re
going to stick like leeches. I reckon in this war German stubbornness
is matched evenly against Scotch persistence, and English bulldog
holding on. What the end of it all will be I can’t see.”

Amos moved uneasily.

“We oughtn’t to have any great trouble getting down from here, I should
think,” he mentioned, significantly.

Of course Jack understood the hint. It would be with only an effort
that he could tear himself away from that wonderful spectacle of modern
man, at war with his neighbors, and bringing every ingenious device
known to latter-day invention into the conflict.

Left to his own devices and he might have clung to that elevated
watch tower for hours, impressing on his memory the strange pictures
that were changed with each passing minute. But he had to consider
the wishes of his companion, and also remember that he had given his
promise.

“No trouble about that, Amos,” he agreed. “Watch your step when
descending.”

“Then you’re ready to come along, Jack?”

“I said I would, so lead the way,” returned the other.

Amos waited no longer. Perhaps he entertained a little fear that
Jack might change his mind if he lingered, because of some new and
astounding phase of the furious, long-drawn-out battle taking place.

Accordingly, he started down the ladder by means of which they had
reached the cupola on top of the deserted mansion.

Jack waited only to cast one last look along that front to the north,
as if desirous of impressing the picture upon his mind forever. He
had always possessed a faculty for mental photography which had been
cultivated to the limit, and which had served him well in times past.

“I’m coming after you, Amos!” he called out, cheerily, as he started
down the ladder.

Amos had meanwhile reached the upper floor of the house. Mechanically
he stepped over some of the broken furniture and fragments of shattered
wall to make for the stairway leading below.

At the head of this he paused to wait for Jack, who had just then
called out that he was on the way. So they came together again.

Amos pointed to what seemed to be the remains of a cradle.

“The people who lived here had children, that’s sure,” remarked Jack.
“I’ve seen toys lying around, and other things besides.”

“What happened to them, do you suppose?” asked tender-hearted Amos.

“Oh! the chances are this man fled with his family when first the war
broke out,” Jack declared. “He was a man of means, and kept his motor
car, because there’s a fine garage in the yard outside.”

“I hadn’t noticed that, Jack. It certainly is little that escapes your
sharp eyes. But I hope they got to a safe place.”

“Dunkirk and Calais are both really close at hand,” continued Jack,
disregarding the praise of his cousin, “and there’s no question but
this family found refuge there. Let’s hope he managed to save his
people even if his fine country place is next door to ruined.”

“Listen! what’s that?” cried Amos, holding up his hand.

“Galloping horses,” answered the ranch boy, instantly, for his ears
were especially trained along those lines.

“It must be more British reserves rushing to the front!” exclaimed
Amos, as together he and his chum headed for the nearest window
fronting the road, which they had no sooner reached than they
discovered a sight that thrilled them.




CHAPTER XIII. THE TRAPPED UHLANS.


In plain sight, and coming with a rush, though their horses reeked with
sweat and showed symptoms of great fatigue, was a small detachment of
mounted men.

No wonder the boys stared as though they hardly dared believe their
eyes. This half dozen hard riders wore spiked helmets, a thing that
seemed to stamp them as Uhlans. They were coming from the southwest,
which fact in itself was enough to tell the story.

“They’re Germans, Jack!” cried Amos, instantly.

“Yes, a part of some command that broke through the British lines, and
got confused amidst the smoke, I reckon,” said the Western boy.

“And, Jack, look, they’re being hotly pursued!” added Amos.

Jack had already guessed as much. He knew it first from the vigorous
way the six riders were urging their tired mounts on. Then again he
could see how they leaned forward in their saddles, and turned anxious
looks over their shoulders.

Sure enough there burst into view a second detachment of riders, whose
animals seemed in better condition for hard service than those of the
fleeing Germans.

These men were garbed in the khaki of British soldiers. They carried
guns which they evidently knew well how to make good use of even when
riding at headlong speed.

Jack guessed the very second he saw them ride that those men had not
picked up their knowledge of horsemanship from following the hounds
after the fox in Old Surrey, and wearing red coats.

Every one of them had been recruited either from the wilds of South
Africa, the cattle ranges of Canada, or else had served among the
Northwest Mounted Police of the Dominion.

Jack felt like giving a yell of recognition, it seemed so much like
meeting old friends again. He did nothing of the sort, however, but
simply reached out a hand to draw Amos further back, because he knew
there was no need of attracting the attention of the hard-pressed and
desperate Uhlans, who might take a notion to send a few bullets their
way.

“What if they stop here and try to make a fort out of the house?”
demanded Amos, as though he thought he detected a veering to one side
on the part of the fugitives.

“No danger of that,” his chum hurriedly assured him, “they’re too
hot-pressed to halt. There, see them turn in the saddle and shoot back.”

“Nothing doing, though,” announced Amos; “every man jack of the Allies
dodged the lead. And now they’re going to return the fire. Whew! that
was a corking volley, Jack.”

“There goes one poor chap!” cried the Western boy; “he got his
straight.”

A rider had pitched headlong from the saddle, his horse continuing to
gallop alongside its mates as though nothing had happened. Both boys
were thrilled by witnessing this tragic event that took place under
their very eyes. Until recently Amos had never known what it meant to
touch elbows with death by violence. He was very white in the face
as he stood there by the ragged casement, seared by the passage of a
shell, and looked out.

Jack on his part had known more or less of such events during his ranch
life, for things happen in the “wild and woolly West” where men live
closer to Nature than in the East. Nevertheless, he too felt the thrill
of keen expectancy as he kept his eager eyes glued upon the actors in
the strange moving panorama.

“There’s another German been hit, Jack; he’s wobbling in the saddle as
if trying his best to hold on. Perhaps he wants to pick out a soft spot
to fall on. There he goes!”

As Amos uttered these last words a second saddle was seen to be empty,
the stricken man hurling himself to one side. Even in his dire
extremity he evidently realized the necessity of avoiding the hoofs of
the pursuing horses.

By now the remaining Uhlans had reached the front of the deserted
ruined mansion. They were following the by-road as the best course to
be pursued, although they could have entertained next to no hope of
ultimate escape.

Bewildered in the smoke, caught in a trap, they meant to ask for no
quarter, but would go to their deaths like most of their comrades,
fighting to the last gasp.

Jack and Amos could not help admiring their dauntless courage, even
though their hearts beat more in sympathy for the avowed aims and
ambitions of the Allies.

Swiftly the four hard riders swept by the broken wall of the chateau
grounds. Amos saw them glance that way. He imagined there was something
like a wistful look on their faces, tanned by the exposure of a winter
to the elements.

“If they only had a little better chance, Jack, they’d break in here
and try to hold the enemy off,” Amos was saying, as they followed the
passage of the grim determined riders in khaki along the other side of
the broken wall.

Some trees cut off their further view, but their last glimpse showed
them pursued and pursuers keeping up that headlong pace. So the
incident came to an end. It had been very real and vivid while it
lasted, and Amos, still a bit pallid, turned to give his chum a serious
look, as he shook his head and remarked:

“They’ll never make it, Jack, with that bunch hitting up the pace on
their heels.”

“Not one chance in ten, I should say,” returned the other, with the air
of certainty that sprung from a knowledge of hard riding cowboy tactics.

All signs of the chase had vanished, though Amos believed he did hear
what sounded like another salvo of shots ringing out. He may have been
mistaken, however, because the air just then was filled with all manner
of strange noises, from the shouts of charging brigades, the rattle
of distant gunfire, to the harsher throb of heavy artillery and the
incessant bursting of bombs.

“Fourth of July will seem pretty tame business to me after all this
noise,” Amos remarked, as he followed his chum back to the top of the
stairs leading to the lower floor of the house.

“I should say it would,” Jack agreed. “I’m wondering right now what
happened to those two chaps who left their saddles in such a hurry.”

“The first acted as though he might have gotten his finish; that’s what
struck me, Jack, though I’m no judge of such terrible things,” and Amos
shivered as he made this admission.

“Yes, I believe he was done for, all right,” assented the ranch boy,
“but it was different with the second trooper.”

“He picked his dropping-off place,” Amos suggested.

“And threw himself sidelong from his saddle, first working his feet out
of the stirrups,” continued Jack, showing how his quick eye had taken
note of all these things.

They issued forth from the house about this time, and headed directly
for a breach in the wall that had once served to enclose the grounds
belonging to the rich Belgian’s grounds.

Of course Jack had noticed about where the second trooper left his
saddle. It was just to one side of the gap which he intended using in
order to gain the little by-road.

“What if we find him injured. Jack--what ought we do about it?” asked
Amos, about the time they arrived at the wall.

“Remember the air pilot, don’t you, Amos? Well, if we could bind up his
wounds, and go our way without betraying him to his enemies, we ought
to repeat, I should think.”

“You know best, Jack, and I want to say that whatever you settle on
doing I’m back of you every time.”

“I expected you’d talk that way, Amos. You’d never let an injured dog
suffer if you could help it. Come on, and if that Uhlan can be assisted
through our limited means we’re the ones to be on the job.”

A minute later they entered among the bushes at the place where they
had seen the second trooper vanish; and almost immediately discovered
the object of their search.




CHAPTER XIV. MET ON THE ROAD.


The Uhlan had evidently been trying to hide. He was crawling along as
with an effort, and undoubtedly experiencing great physical pain in so
doing, which went to prove that his injury was more than trifling.

He must have heard the approach of the two American lads, for just as
they discovered him amidst the bushes he drew himself up and faced
about. Amos would never forget that sight of the wounded rough rider.
His face was scratched and bleeding, doubtless caused by his hasty and
reckless plunge into the bushes at the time he left his saddle. There
was a defiant look on it, like that of a man who has given up all hope
of coming out of the adventure with his life, yet meant to show a grim
front to the foe, and go down with colors flying.

“Tell him we’re not enemies, Jack!” exclaimed Amos, quickly, for the
sight of that poor injured fellow gave him a cruel shock; he was
reminded of a wretched dog at bay amidst a host of furious enemies, and
the sensation was anything but pleasant to the boy.

Jack had just the same notion in his mind.

He held up both hands. This was an Indian custom which Jack had picked
up during his life in the West. It meant that he did not have arms in
his hands, and that his intentions were pacific. On the whole face
of the earth there are few living human beings who would fail to
understand the significance of the movement. The Uhlan was not devoid
of ordinary intelligence, even though sadly rattled just then on
account of his recent heavy fall.

Slowly the two boys advanced. The man was staring hard at them. He
looked as if he feared it might be only a cunning trick on the part of
these treacherous British, for he undoubtedly believed they were of
that nationality.

“Point to your little American flag, Amos, while I try to get enough
German words together to let him know where we belong,” said Jack.

“That’s the ticket,” affirmed the other. “Jack, be sure and tell him
that we stand ready to render first aid to the injured, if so be he’ll
let us take a look at his hurts.”

The Western boy grunted a little at this. He did not feel quite so
kindly toward the invaders as Amos seemed to. Jack could not get out
of his mind a whole lot of terrible things that he had seen with his
own eyes, which marked the ruthless advance of the great German army
through this part of Belgium; and which would of course be found in the
wake of any invading host. The sack of the fine chateau so close at
hand was only a minute example of what he had in mind.

Still, Jack knew very well that individually each German soldier had
little responsibility for such acts. The system back of them must bear
all the blame for the devastation of the land, and the stern methods of
reprisals against such Belgians as hampered their progress through the
country.

“All right, Amos,” he said, quickly, “I’ll tell him that; and I reckon
we’d feel pretty cheap if we turned to one side when we might lend a
helping hand. Get busy now, and show that you are carrying a small
edition of Old Glory along with you over here in these shambles.”

Amos displayed his colors as prominently as he could by thrusting the
lapel of his coat forward, and pointing energetically at the little
flag. He saw the wondering eyes of the German take it in; and that
he must have partly understood could be noticed in the expression of
surprise that came upon his face.

Then Jack on his part began to have his say in the matter. Perhaps his
German was pretty faulty, and at another time might have caused the man
to laugh; but the situation for him was much too serious just then for
anything like that.

He heard the words “friends--American boys--not your enemies--would
even try to bind up your hurts after a fashion if you let us!” They
certainly must have given him an intense feeling of relief, for that
strained look on his scratched and set face gradually relaxed.

He nodded his head and said something in his own language which Amos
believed to be his readiness to trust the two boys who had so suddenly
appeared before him. Then he sank to the ground in a heap.

“Jack, he’s gone!” ejaculated Amos, feeling rather faint himself.

The other sprang forward and bent over the prostrate Uhlan. Hurriedly
he looked the man over, while Amos waited to hear his decision.
Certainly the poor fellow appeared as though the “silver cord” had been
broken in his case, for there was no sign of life about him.

“How about it, Jack?” asked Amos, anxiously, for while he did not
know the man from Adam, at the same time he felt an interest in him,
probably based upon the fact that they had seen him struck down, and
were now at his side.

“He’s only swooned, I think,” Jack told his chum presently. “You see
he’s been pretty seriously hurt, arm broken, and I’m afraid his ribs
are in bad shape, not to mention the wound he got from that bullet
which has cost him a heap of blood.”

Jack started at once to try and do what he could while the man remained
unconscious. In a crude but effective fashion he stanched the flow of
blood. Then he managed to get the man’s jacket off, and see to his arm,
Amos assisting in setting the broken bone and bandaging the injured
extremity, even sacrificing a part of his own shirt so as to accomplish
this, which was surely a strong evidence of his earnestness.

“That’s the best we can do,” said Jack, after they had finished, and he
stepped back to look critically at the work accomplished.

“Will he live, do you think?” asked Amos.

The Western boy shrugged his shoulders and shook his head.

“I don’t dare say one way or the other,” he remarked. “If he could get
the proper care right now he’d have a good chance to pull through; but
you know he’s on the wrong side of the fighting line to expect much.
The British will have thousands of their own wounded to take care of,
and you could hardly expect them to leave even one of their own flesh
and blood behind in order to make room in an ambulance for an enemy.”

“It’s tough on Hans then, I must say,” and Amos shook his head in turn,
to immediately add: “But he’s coming to, Jack, for I saw his eyelids
flutter just then.”

“Yes, he’s beginning to open his eyes,” muttered the other.

The Uhlan blinked a number of times as he stared hard at the two
strange boys. Evidently he could not place them at once. Then a wince
of pain made him aware of the fact that he was not arousing from sleep
in his own encampment, and amidst his comrades. He looked down and saw
the bandaged arm. Possibly something of the truth flashed across his
mind in that instant, for they saw his face light up, and his eyes were
fastened upon the little American flag in the buttonhole of Amos’ coat.

“We have done all we could for you,” Jack was trying to convey to him
through means of such words as he could summon up, as well as various
signs with hands, head and shoulders, such as may be made to mean
volumes, “we must leave you now. Perhaps if you can crawl out to the
edge of the road some Red Cross ambulance going back with a load of
wounded might find room for you aboard. If you understand what I am
saying nod your head to let us know.”

The man followed his instructions, and Jack felt after that the limit
of their usefulness had been reached. Humanity could not expect any
more of them, for they had done all that lay in their power.

“He’s trying to get up, Jack!” exclaimed Amos.

“Yes, I just told him he’d better crawl nearer the road, and some
ambulance coming from the front might have room for him. Let’s get one
on either side and help him walk there,” said the other.

He often wished he could have taken a picture of Amos and himself
assisting the wounded Uhlan along, just as tenderly as though he were a
brother. It would have always stood for proof to show that he and his
cousin were trying to carry out the request of President Wilson for
strict neutrality, at least as far as could be done when brought face
to face with the horrors of the battlefield.

On the border of the little road they stopped. The German rough rider
was propped against a convenient tree, where any one passing along
could not fail to notice him. They had even seen to it that his face
was turned toward the fighting line; since any chance of help must come
from that direction.

So they left him there. Amos even turned once and waved his hand to
him, receiving in return a like salutation; for the Uhlan by that time
could not mistake the friendliness of those two boys.

“Somehow,” mused Amos as they passed along, “I’m beginning to think
that a whole lot we’ve heard about the brutality of these Uhlans is
humbug. In the terror and excitement of war people exaggerate ten times
over. Why, that fellow didn’t look like a savage. His face was that of
a young German, and when the fighting light died out of his eyes they
were as blue as the skies.”

“I was thinking about the same thing,” admitted Jack. “Between you and
me I’ve got an idea most of these terrible raiding Uhlans are at home
only ordinary German boys, accustomed to hard riding. When the call to
the colors came they dropped their ordinary vocation and hurried to
quarters, to put on their uniforms and take up a new life. In other
words, scratch the back of a fierce Uhlan and after all is said and
done you’ve got a very ordinary citizen of the Fatherland.”

As they tramped along the road they cast an occasional glance back
toward the ruined mansion where they had witnessed the terrible battle
between the army of the Kaiser and that of the Allies; for they fancied
that there were Belgian troops in that line somewhere or other, trying
to keep this corner of their beloved country from slipping back into
the clutches of the foe.

The fight was still going on. At times the pulsations came in thrilling
gushes to their ears, and then again seemed to temporarily die down.
It was not long before they began to meet vehicles heading for the
fighting zone. These were not artillery trains now but others bent on
an errand of mercy--hospital vans, ambulances perhaps with a doctor and
a nurse bearing the magical Red Cross on their sleeves; English-made
lorries capable of carrying a large number of groaning warriors to a
place where they could be temporarily looked after, and then probably
sent across to London.

They came in packs, and at times there was a constant stream in sight.
Amos was visibly moved by all this. He knew that while these vans were
almost empty now, when they returned they would be carrying loads of
suffering humanity. The boy had had his baptism along the line of being
brought in touch with war’s dreadful scenes, but he had not as yet
commenced to feel callous, and this wholesale suffering affected him
very much.

Of course all aboard these vehicles intended for missionary work seemed
to be British, saving possibly a few chauffeurs who may have been
Belgians, able and willing to work in any capacity so long as they were
striking a blow for the devoted defenders of their sadly harassed land.

The boys with their cheery faces attracted considerable attention. Each
ambulance carried a nurse, as well as a doctor when possible, and these
returned the greetings Amos and Jack sent with their ready hands.

“I suppose it would be pretty nervy in us if we dared to stop one
of them and ask that they take up our patient on the return trip,”
suggested Amos, still thinking of the wounded Uhlan propped up against
the tree, and with his wistful face turned down the road.

“I hardly think we ought to mention it,” replied Jack; “because there’s
so much bad blood shown between the Germans and the British just now
they’d only refuse. This war is getting more bitter the further it
moves along, and there’s no telling what will happen yet with Turkey in
it, and other nations on the verge of joining the Allies.”

“There’s an ambulance that seems to be in trouble, Jack!” exclaimed
Amos, pointing down the road as they turned a sudden bend.

“Yes, something has happened, for the chauffeur is down, and the nurse
also. Let’s quicken our pace a little more, Amos, and see what’s gone
wrong.”

“We’ve already shown that we’re capable of helping out in the case of
a wounded man,” chuckled Amos, keeping alongside his cousin as the
latter started off at a faster walk that almost amounted to a jog trot.
“P’raps we’ll also be Johnny-on-the-spot when it comes to patching up a
bursted tire, or the crippling of some part of the motor.”

“Well, both of us happen to know a little about auto motors,” admitted
the other, “so that wouldn’t be so queer, after all. But here we are.”

“Gee! the nurse is a rosy-cheeked English girl, all right,” muttered
Amos. “If I had the bad luck to get hurt I guess the sight of her
wholesome face would help me a heap to recover. See how she smiles and
beckons to us, would you, Jack? She must think we look like we could
help them out of the hole.”

Amos thrust out his chest just a trifle more as he said this. Really
there is nothing that can awaken a boy’s conceit as much as confidence
expressed in his ability by another, whether this takes the shape of
words or looks.

Upon reaching the spot where the ambulance stood on one side of the
road they quickly learned what was wrong. After all, it was only a
punctured tire; but while the Belgian boy who had been at the wheel
may have been able to guide the car, and carry out the duties of a
chauffeur fairly well, he seemed to be something of a sad bungler when
it came to making ordinary repairs.

Jack instantly realized this when he came up; and if he had failed to
do so the first words of the pretty English Red Cross nurse would have
convinced him.

“He is making a terrible mess of it, I’m afraid,” was what she said.
“All the chauffeurs passing are in such great haste to get on I haven’t
been able to secure any assistance. This boy is green at the work; he
was picked up on the road when the regular driver was taken very sick
and had to be left behind. Would you mind taking a look, and seeing
what needs to be done?”




CHAPTER XV. WHAT CAME OF A GOOD ACT.


“We’ll only be too glad to help, Miss,” said Amos, quickly, without
giving his cousin the first chance to say anything.

This was a field where possibly he excelled Jack in proficiency, for he
had had more practical experience with motors than the Western lad. If
it had been anything connected with horses now, Amos would have known
that he must take a back seat, for the ranch boy was quite at home
along those lines.

For once, Jack was ready and willing to allow his chum to work while he
looked on. He had seen the nurse staring hard at that small emblem of
the country across the sea which Amos so proudly carried on his coat
lapel.

“You are really and truly Americans?” she remarked, turning to Jack.

“Oh! yes, we belong over there, and have come across because we had a
very important errand,” he told her. “We were in England only recently,
and met your Lord Kitchener, to whom we had a letter of introduction
from the father of my cousin, who used to be great friends with him
long ago out in Egypt or somewhere. He gave us a paper that is turning
out to be a great help in our search.”

Amos was working busily at the tire, with the Belgian youth to assist
him; but he evidently heard every word they said, for he turned to nod
his head at this juncture and remark:

“Your K. of K. is the finest gentleman ever, for he fixed us out, and
right now we’re hoping to be able to find my brother before a great
while. Jack, you explain about it, won’t you, please, while I knuckle
down to this job.”

“Then you are looking for some one who has been caught over here by the
war breaking out?” suggested the nurse. “There are thousands in that
same trouble. I myself have met many, and we try to assist them as far
as our limited means will allow. Oh! if there ever was a time when I
wished for a thousand arms it is in these terrible days and nights. For
many weeks each day has brought new hosts of poor wounded fellows. I
sometimes think the better part of our young manhood will be cut off if
this thing continues much longer. But you did not answer my question.”

“Well, we are looking for some one,” Jack admitted, “though he was not
caught in Belgium by the breaking out of the war. On the contrary,
this brother of my chum, who is about ten years his senior, must have
offered his services to your Government as an experienced aviator,
and was accepted because the supply of air pilots just then was not
equal to the demand. We have reason to believe he has been serving in
that capacity, and done a few pretty daring things along his line of
scouting and the like.”

“I have met with dozens of aviators,” she told him. “In fact, for a
time it happened that I was attached to a corps particularly assigned
to cases of necessity among the pilots of aeroplanes; for you must
know they frequently meet with serious accidents aside from the dangers
they run while over the enemy’s lines.”

Again did Amos’ head bob up.

“Well, I declare, that’s queer,” he was saying. “I wonder now if you
ever did happen to meet my brother.”

“What was his name, for you haven’t even told me yours yet?” the nurse
continued, as she gave the boy one of her smiles.

“My name is Amos Turner, and his is Frank, but we’ve learned that when
he enlisted he went as Frank Bradford.”

The nurse started, and looked more sharply at the speaker.

“Frank Bradford, you say?” she remarked, quickly.

“Yes, and it’s plain to be seen from the way you act you’ve heard about
him,” continued Amos, his interest growing by leaps and bounds.

“I have even met him,” the Red Cross nurse announced. “Yes, more than
that, it was my privilege to attend to his trifling hurts after he
had returned from one of his most remarkable forays over many miles
of hostile territory, doing an immense amount of damage to the German
concentration camps, stores, railway stations, and Zeppelin hangars.”

Amos colored with pride, for it must be remembered that it was a
Turner, and his own brother, of whom this praise was being spoken.

“We read accounts of that long flight he made that left a trail of
alarm behind,” said Jack, “but there was no name mentioned. We only
heard this very day through a British colonel that it was Frank
Bradford.”

Amos left his work for a minute. He was so excited he felt he must find
out a little more about Frank from the Red Cross attendant.

“How was he injured, Nurse?” he asked.

“The wings of his plane were fairly riddled with shrapnel,” she
explained, “but he had escaped all that in a miraculous way. In fact,
his only injuries consisted of a few minor hurts on one of his arms,
where he had scraped it in falling, after he got back into our lines.”

“Was it his left arm?” asked Amos, quickly, and although the nurse may
have possibly imagined this a foolish question, she answered it after a
second’s thought.

“His left arm--yes, that’s the one he had injured, I remember.”

“My brother Frank had some tattoo work on his forearm,” explained Amos.
“It was done by an old sailor he knew, and whose tales of worldwide
adventure Frank was never tired of hearing. Can you remember, Nurse,
whether the Frank Bradford you attended was marked with colored India
inks--he had an eagle stamped there on his arm, a real screaming
American eagle?”

“Yes, it was an eagle, I remember now,” she affirmed. “He laughed when
I told him it was a shame to allow himself to be mutilated that way,
and said he had dreamed of being a sailor some day, and visiting every
quarter of the globe. He also told me he had been around pretty much
during the last few years.”

Amos exchanged pleased glances with his cousin.

“How strange it seems, Jack, that we should meet two persons in one day
who have known Frank. The tattoo business tells the story good enough
for me; but p’raps I’d better flash that picture out, and make dead
sure.”

When the Red Cross nurse had taken one look she nodded her head.

“That’s certainly the Frank Bradford I met,” she told Amos, “though of
course he looks older than in this picture.”

Amos was wearing a broad smile now. It seemed to him all things must
be working together for their benefit, and that before a great while
he would meet this brother face to face, when he could tell him how
the cloud had been magically removed from his name at home, and with
what deep anxiety his father was waiting to welcome him and ask his
forgiveness.

“What a lucky thing it was this old tire of yours had to go down and
need fixing, Miss,” he said, with considerable feeling. “Only for that
we wouldn’t have met you, or learned this bit of good news.”

“Get busy and finish your job, Amos,” said Jack. “Time is worth
something to many a poor wounded Tommy Atkins lying out there on the
field, where we saw them falling like ripe grain.”

“That’s a fact,” declared the other, again dropping down on hands and
knees so as to continue his labors. “I was forgetting that others are
concerned in this business besides myself. It’s nearly finished, and I
think will hold as good as new. Jack, try and find out if you can where
we’d likely run across Frank about this time.”

The nurse did not know, in fact she had not seen the air pilot since
that time when she looked after his hurts, after his return from his
long raid up along the fortified banks of the Rhine over Cologne and
beyond.

“One thing you can depend on,” she did tell them, “wherever there is
most need of a fearless aviator there you are apt to find him, whether
it happens to be in Flanders, with the French along the Aisne, far over
in the frozen mountain regions of the Vosges in Alsace, or even along
the Dardanelles, where they have commenced to batter their way through
to Constantinople.”

To hear such words said of his own brother must have thrilled Amos. He
worked away, and soon arose, saying:

“It’s all done, Miss, and as good as any one might manage it. I reckon
you’ll get along with that tire for some time now.”

“I wish I knew how to repay you two noble boys for doing what you
have,” the grateful Red Cross nurse said, with earnestness.

“I think you have more than repaid us as it is,” declared Jack, “in
giving us the news you did about my chum’s brother.”

Amos looked a little confused, as though he hardly knew how what he
meant to say might be taken; still he was very set in his ways, and
once he had allowed a thing to get a grip on his mind he could not be
easily discouraged.

“Perhaps I’m bold to mention such a thing, Miss,” he started to say,
“but after we went to all the trouble to plaster him up, somehow we
seem to take a personal interest in that German.”

“I don’t seem to follow you,” she said, as she climbed upon the seat
of the ambulance again, alongside the Belgian boy chauffeur who was
ready to once more guide the car of mercy along its way to the field
hospital, where its ghastly cargo could be taken aboard.

“From the cupola of a chateau that had been pillaged by the German
army,” explained Jack, “we saw a detachment of Uhlans, that had
become caught back of the British lines, being hotly pursued by some
cavalrymen. Two were shot, and fell alongside the road. Afterwards we
came on one of them who was badly wounded.”

“You stopped and assisted him, I am sure,” she said, quickly. “It would
be just like such gallant boys. Besides, this is no affair of yours,
and I can see how German interests appeal partly to you, even though
you may be at heart on the side of the Allies. What do you want me to
do? Tell me quickly, please.”

Jack described how they had left the poor wounded Uhlan near the
mansion she was sure to notice on the way to the field hospital for a
load of the wounded.

“On the way back,” said Amos, “if by any means you can crowd just one
more in your ambulance, will you take him along? I ask this favor
partly because he is our patient, and our professional interest has
been aroused.”

The earnestness of the two boys had its influence upon the English
nurse.

“I promise you to do the best I can,” she told them, as she gave Jack
and then Amos her little hand in parting. “It is partly because I am
more than curious to see if you are as much at home in binding up the
wounds of men as you seem to be at making a punctured tire whole.
Good-bye! The best of luck follow your efforts to find your brother
Frank. If I see him I shall surely tell him that you have come all the
way over here from your land of peace to discover him.”

The ambulance went hurrying along the road, and the two boys had no
idea they would ever see the red-cheeked English nurse again. They felt
that they had been repaid ten times over because of the little trouble
taken to relieve those in trouble.

“It certainly beats the Dutch how things turn out,” Amos was saying as
they once more started to trudge along, with their backs for the most
part toward the region where the big guns growled, and the tumult of
battle was borne to their ears from time to time with the rising and
falling of the wind.

“We’ve got little to complain of, for a fact,” added Jack. “It all goes
to prove that a good act is never thrown away. We didn’t expect to be
rewarded in any way when we stopped to patch up that tire; yet see how
it came out.”

“Yes,” added Amos, earnestly, “after this I’ll never doubt that old
saying, for it’s been proved over and over again. But I’d give a heap
to know whether Frank was one of those air pilots we saw wheeling and
dodging about when the battle was going on. And Jack, the scent is
getting warmer all the time. We’ll find Frank yet!”




CHAPTER XVI. FIGURING IT ALL OUT.


If other reinforcements were hurrying up to take their places on
the firing line, the boys did not happen to meet them on this road.
It seemed to be given over almost entirely to vehicles of every
description speeding forward to carry off the bleeding forms of those
whose lives might yet be saved.

There were some queer-looking vans among the rest, for every available
motorcar had been pressed into the service of removing the injured to
Dunkirk and Calais, where later on they could be transported to Havre
and across the Channel.

“I was just wondering,” Amos remarked after some time had elapsed,
“why both Germans and the Allies seem to set so great a store on the
holding of Ypres. From all the information I’ve been able to pick up,
as a place it doesn’t amount to a row of beans. And yet, Brussels,
Antwerp and a whole lot of other cities fell without one-quarter of the
fighting that’s been taking place around here. How do you make it out,
Jack?”

“The only thing I can see,” replied the other, “is that it must be a
railroad center, and from Ypres there’s a good road to Dunkirk and
Calais. You know how set the Kaiser has been right along on getting
his big guns stationed on the French coast, where the Channel is only
twenty miles across. He’ll never be happy until he can watch one of
those monsters hurling shells that fall on England’s shore.”

“And the British are just as bent on keeping him from doing it, seems
like,” observed Amos. “Queer how a little thing like that brings about
many desperate fights. Tens of thousands of Germans have been killed,
wounded or captured just because of a pet whim of the Kaiser’s; for I
don’t believe anything very great would come of it even if they did
take Calais. The British battleships would pour in such a smashing
amount of shells that they’d wreck any gun emplacement the Germans
might build.”

“It’s a queer war all around, I think,” said Jack. “It started with
a match in the powder magazine, when that murder occurred in Servia;
and by degrees it’s getting to be the most terrible thing that ever
happened on this old earth, barring none. We’re living in wonderful
times, Amos.”

“Seems so, Jack, when you stop to think of all that’s being done, in
the air with dirigibles and aeroplanes, and under the sea with the
submarines.”

“Our fathers laughed at Jules Verne when they read some of his books,”
ventured the other boy, seriously; “but let me tell you most of what
he described there has already come to pass. We may live to see his
account beaten to a frazzle, as Teddy says, the way things are going on
nowadays.”

“It’s a blessed good thing that America’s three thousand miles away,
and that the whole big Atlantic Ocean rolls between,” remarked Amos,
reflectively.

“By which you mean we’re not likely to get into this scrap, I take it,”
said his cousin. “Just go a little slow there, my boy.”

Amos stopped short to look at him in wonder and uneasiness.

“Whatever do you mean, Jack?” he started to say. “From the way you
speak it looks as if you wouldn’t be a bit surprised to see the United
States get mixed up in this awful business, after all.”

“Which would be what I meant,” explained Jack, soberly, “much as I hate
to admit it. Stop and think for a minute, no matter how much the main
body of Americans may want to keep out, remember that we’ve got some
six millions of Germans who are supposed to be naturalized citizens,
but whose hearts still beat fondly for the Fatherland. Besides, there
might be a whole lot of reasons why Germany would really want to see
war declared between herself and our country.”

“Why, they must be crazy to want that, Jack! We have a hundred million
people, and could do them all sorts of harm.”

“Could we?” asked Jack, shrewdly. “In what way, I want to know? As
there isn’t any vessel today carrying food or anything else from
America to Germany they wouldn’t feel it there. We wouldn’t send an
army over, nor yet our battleships to take chances of being torpedoed.
We might send forty or eighty torpedo boats and destroyers, but that is
all. Can’t you see that if our country were at war it would shut off
the great supply of arms and ammunition that is flowing across to Great
Britain and Russia and France? We’d need it all at home for six months.”

Amos stared as well he might. He had not bothered looking below the
surface when he figured that war with the United States would mean
the overwhelming of the Teutonic race. It took Jack to consider what
lay underneath the exterior, and see signs of a deep game wonderfully
played by the Kaiser’s Strategy Board.

“If that ever happens,” reflected Amos, “it’s bound to be a world
war in fact, and every nation going will be drawn into it. But after
Turkey I don’t know of even one country that stands back of Germany and
Austria. That alone makes it seem as if they must be in the wrong; but
of course no German will admit that, even if ten thousand neutrals were
against him.

“You remember the obstinate Irishman on the jury that disagreed, who
claimed that there were ‘eleven pig-headed men’ locked up with him, the
most stubborn lot he had ever run across?” laughed Amos.

“One thing sure,” Jack added, “if Germany is beaten in the end it’ll
only be the same way our South was whipped, by sheer force of superior
numbers, wearing them away until they have to hoist the white flag and
surrender. Great Britain is already fighting on that policy of Grant’s,
that man for man the Allies can stand equal losses better than their
enemies.”

“Why, I’ve been beaten at checkers by the same dodge, Jack. The other
fellow having managed to get one of my men by some accident insisted
in facing others and compelling an equal exchange, till it got down to
his having two to my one; which odds proved too much for me. I’ve quit
playing the game on that account.”

“Well, I’m going to predict that the chances are Germany, if she ever
does quit, will do it from the same reason, that as the war goes on
the ratio against her will keep on increasing steadily until she is
overwhelmed. Perhaps Holland will be dragged into it, and the Allied
army will pass through the Netherlands to invade Germany from the west.
We may live to see the end, and I want you to remember what I’m saying.”

So they talked as they went on, not as careless boys, but with the air
of observers deeply impressed by what they had witnessed of the great
war. Rubbing up against such impressive sights is bound to be a great
educator, and those two wideawake American boys had progressed by great
leaps and bounds since coming abroad a short time before.

“Is that smoke rolling overhead, or clouds, Jack?” asked Amos, a short
time later, as he chanced to look up.

“Clouds, because they are coming from another quarter than the fighting
line,” the experienced Western boy announced.

“Then perhaps we’ll get some rain before long, though it feels pretty
cold for that, when you come to think of it,” replied Amos.

“It wouldn’t surprise me if we did,” said Jack. “They say that after a
big battle it nearly always does rain, whether from the great noise,
or something else I can’t tell you. If it comes it means more mud, and
goodness knows we’ve had enough of that before now.”

“If only it’s heavy enough it may put a stop to the fighting for today,
which would mean some lives saved,” ventured the other.

“Only to be sacrificed tomorrow, so what difference does that make?”
Jack returned. “I’m getting kind of cynical about these things. There
will be just so many men killed in this war, you see, and so the sooner
they reach that number the better. Then perhaps America can patch up
an enduring peace.”

“Jack, I really felt a big drop of rain then!”

“Yes, I’m afraid we’re in for a storm that may last the rest of this
day, Amos.”

“And no shelter in sight,” groaned the second boy. “I wish we could
only run across another ruined chateau like that one we visited this
morning. It might seem a little hard to go hungry all night, but we
could build a fire, and keep comfortable anyhow, and that’d count for a
lot.”

“Let’s start out and run for it,” suggested Jack.

“What’s the use, if we have to get soaked anyway? See here, Jack,
have you glimpsed any haven of refuge? Is there a cottage in sight, a
friendly cave, or even a big hollow tree into which we might push?”

Jack laughed at the way his cousin said this.

“I think I sighted something like a cottage ahead of us, several of
them in fact,” he admitted. “If that was a fact, why, we may be coming
to the outskirts of the town of Ypres, which isn’t a very big place.”

At that Amos looked pleased.

“Hurrah! who knows but what we may get something to eat in the bargain,
even if sour black bread is all they’ve got to spare. I can run faster
than this, if you say the word, Jack!”

“Then whoop it up for keeps!” Jack told him, immediately setting a good
example by increasing his own pace.

There were houses ahead. The drops began to come down faster, and it
seemed to be an open question as to whether Jack and his cousin would
reach shelter fairly dry or not until the rain had drenched them.
Almost winded with their exertions, they presently arrived in the midst
of the cottages, which like nearly all others in Belgium of that day
showed positive signs of having been under artillery fire.




CHAPTER XVII. SHELTER FROM THE STORM.


“We’re going to make the push, Jack!” gasped Amos, as they found
themselves in close touch with the cottages.

“Yes, and I only hope we’ll find a friendly roof to shelter us,” added
his chum.

The clouds hung heavy above them. One would almost imagine the day was
far spent, and night about to close the curtains of darkness around
them. Again did they feel drops of rain starting to fall, and this time
it threatened to continue.

Looking around, Jack picked out a certain house as the most promising
of all those near by. He never could exactly explain just why he
selected that particular cottage, except that it was possibly a bit
closer than any other, and the rain began to fall more and more
heavily.

Hurrying under the shelter of the little porch that lay before the
door, the boys found that they could immediately escape the increasing
downpour. At the same time, as this was no mere summer shower, Jack did
not intend to stay on the outside.

So he proceeded to knock with his knuckles on the closed door. There
was no immediate reply, at which Amos suggested that possibly the
cottage might be without a tenant.

“If you looked a little closer,” his comrade told him, “you’d never say
that, for there is smoke coming from the top of the chimney. Besides, I
saw a face at the window staring at us when we rushed under this little
canopy that shields the door.”

“You don’t say!” ejaculated Amos.

“It was the face of an old woman, and white with fear I thought,”
continued Jack, seriously. “Still, that shouldn’t surprise us,
because in these terrible war-times all sorts of frightful things are
constantly happening to make timid people shiver with dread.”

“But, Jack, surely two boys oughtn’t to make anybody afraid?”
expostulated Amos.

“Sometimes the most innocent-looking things are the most dangerous,”
his chum told him. “These poor Belgians must be seeing German secret
agents everywhere about them. We have been suspected before now, and
seen in this strange light even you might appear a regular ogre in her
eyes.”

“But, my stars! Jack, are we going to stay out in the rain right along
just because some silly person might think all strangers are German
spies? Don’t you intend to knock again?”

For answer Jack once again brought his knuckles against the door with
more vim than before. It might even be considered a knock of authority,
for there is such a thing.

This time they plainly heard the shuffling of feet within. Then a
bar seemed to be removed, which in itself was a mute evidence of the
radical change that had come to this land since war stalked abroad; for
in the good old days of peace it was likely that no door had ever been
fastened, since thievery was next to unknown.

As the door was partly opened they saw a man of middle age, whose sight
was confined to one eye. He looked plainly worried, Amos could see; but
being content to leave all matters to Jack, he held his peace.

It was the usual habit of the boys when desiring to communicate with
any of the people whom they chanced to meet to test them first of all
with English. There were a certain number of Belgians who could speak
that language, having picked it up in trade, or by reason of having
been across the Channel working in English factories during dull
seasons in their own country.

Jack first of all pointed to that wonderful little flag which Amos bore
in his buttonhole.

“We are Americans--from the United States--can you talk English?”

He saw the man’s face give a twitch, and even fancied that his worried
face took on a partially relieved expression, though his hand resting
upon the edge of the door still quivered.

“Yes, I can speak and understand English,” he immediately said in
a quavering tone. “Both the wife and me, we have worked over in
Birmingham in the days that are gone. What is it you want, m’sieu?”

Jack waved his hand as if to call his attention to the descending rain.

“Shelter from the storm,” he said. “We will be only too glad to take
whatever accommodations you can spare, so long as we keep our coats
dry, and get a bite to eat; and please understand we will pay for the
service. I hope you will not refuse to accommodate us for one night, my
friend!”

The old man looked puzzled. He acted as though while he would like to
say no, policy compelled him to think twice before committing himself.

“Please wait a minute. I will talk with the good wife.”

He closed the door in their faces as he said this, softly, however, as
though not wishing to offend them.

“Well, I like that,” said Amos. “We may have to go elsewhere to get out
of the rain.”

“Give them a little time,” cautioned Jack. “It shows that the woman
rules here, as she usually does in every home. Don’t you remember that
story about the man who started out to learn whether the man or the
woman of the house was the actual boss, and found to his satisfaction
that it was always the lady?”

“I don’t remember hearing it, Jack,” commented Amos. “Suppose you tell
me about it while we’re waiting for them to decide this matter.”

“Oh! I thought it was a chestnut,” laughed Jack. “It’s so good that it
would bear repeating anyway. This man started out to please his father,
taking ten chickens in the wagon and a pair of horses, one gray and
the other a roan. If he found that the woman bossed the house he was
to leave a fowl; and should he ever come across a home where the man
was absolutely the ruler one of the horses was to be given to the happy
couple!”

“That’s interesting. Honest, Jack, I’ve never heard the story before,
either.”

“From house to house the man went. In every case he learned that woman
ruled the ranch, and so by degrees his supply of fowls got down to a
single specimen. Then he came to a place where there was a big burly
man and a small sharp-eyed wife. When he stated his case he learned
that in this home the man did just as he pleased. Both declared this,
and it looked as though he had at last hit on an ideal couple, which
would please his father very much.

“‘Since in this house the man is the sole boss,’ he told them, ‘I am
empowered by my father to make you a present of a horse. Now choose
which one of these two animals you would want to have.’

“‘The gray one strikes me as just about right,’ said the man.

“‘It’s a good horse,’ admitted the woman, ‘but don’t you think the roan
a little the finer, John? It seems to me if there is any choice I’d
take the roan.’

“At that the man told them to step aside and settle the matter; so
after some talk the husband came forward a little sheepishly and said:

“‘Mister, if it’s all the same to you I think we’ll take the roan
horse!’

“‘You’ll take a hen,’ said the traveler, as he chucked the last fowl
out of the wagon, and drove back to tell his father that woman was
supreme in every home.”

Amos laughed heartily at hearing the conclusion. Anxieties do not
wholly suppress young blood, which is capable of throwing cares aside
at will.

“Here they come to the door again,” he told Amos. “I wonder what they
think of hearing me laugh so loud.”

This time the door was thrown wide open by the man.

“Enter, young messieurs. We will do the best we can to entertain you.
But after such a terrible winter it is little any Belgian family
possesses to keep body and soul together. Lucky are those who still
have a roof over their heads.”

The old woman looked at them, and nodded her head as both boys saluted
her respectfully. They were given chairs, and seemed glad to sit down
to rest, being more or less tired after walking.

“What a wonderful day this has been for us, taken in all,” Amos was
saying as they looked out of the small window and saw how steadily the
rain was coming down.

“We’ll have to mark it with a white stone in our log of this trip
abroad to the battlefields of the world war,” Jack asserted.

“Do you think they mean to keep us over night?” asked Amos, in a low
tone, as he noted that both man and woman seemed to be stirring around,
getting the fire started afresh, as though meaning to do some cooking.

“Oh! yes, he said as much as that,” Jack replied. “There’s an upstairs
to the house, and perhaps some sort of loft where we can lie down to
sleep. But it’s a poor family, remember. So don’t expect too much of
them.”

“I’m willing to put up with almost anything,” hastily observed Amos.
“But do you notice how often they glance this way, and then if they
see either of us looking, seem confused? Jack, it isn’t curiosity that
makes them act so, but something more in the line of fear.”

“They may have a notion that after all we’re German spies, and meaning
to get secret evidence that will bring them under the military ban
later on. So, while we are here we must be careful not to say or do the
least thing to add to their anxious feeling. Let our talk be wholly of
America, and of how she feels for the wrongs of poor Belgium.”

Once there was a knock at the door which produced the greatest
consternation on the part of both the old man and his better half. He
finally answered the summons, and seemed greatly relieved when he found
it was only a neighbor who may have seen the two boys go in and felt
desirous of knowing who and what they were.

So the dull afternoon wore on to a close. The housewife busied herself
over her fire, and the old man talked with the boys. He seemed to grow
a little easier in his mind the more he heard them tell about the land
beyond the ocean. It was as if some of his secret fears may have been
set at rest.

While the supplies of food may have run pretty low in that humble
Belgian home, as was the universal case, still the housewife knew how
to get the most out of what she had. The appetizing odors that floated
to the boys began to make them anxious for the summons to sit down at
the table.

Presently this came, and they were not at all surprised to find
that the old couple were deeply religious, and asked a grace before
partaking of the meal. Even the worried look forsook the face of the
good wife when the two uninvited guests chatted pleasantly, and told of
many interesting things in connection with America, the wonder land to
most peasants in the Old World, and of which they can never hear quite
enough.

So the meal was ended, and the boys again resumed their seats by the
window. It had grown dark by now, with the rain still coming down,
though fitfully.

“I really believe it may let up before long, don’t you, Jack?” Amos
ventured to say, as they sat there, watching the two belonging to the
cottage busying themselves with various duties, and every once in a
while get their heads close together to exchange confidences, as though
some weighty secret lay between them.

“The signs point that way,” replied Jack, who was always watching out
for a change in the wind, or anything else that might indicate possible
weather conditions in the near future.

“I certainly hope we have a decent day tomorrow,” said Amos. “To
think of all those poor fellows lying wounded and uncared for on the
battlefield, how they will suffer tonight in this cold rain. It makes
me feel sick just to remember it. No matter whether they are British,
Belgians, French or Germans, they are our fellow human beings, and have
been our friends.”

The old man did not come over to them for some little time. Jack
fancied that he was getting nervous again, for several times he half
started from his seat and looked quickly toward the door.

Sitting there for a while, the boys found that they were getting very
sleepy. Jack purposely yawned several times when he thought the owner
of the cottage was looking their way. If this was intended as a gentle
hint it finally met with its reward, for the man came towards them.

“Young messieurs,” he said, awkwardly, “if you are tired and would lie
down I will show you the best we can do for you. It is not much, but
you will understand that no one can be expected to do more in these
terrible times.”

“Please don’t say that again,” Amos burst out with in his impetuous
fashion. “You are doing us a great favor as it is in giving us shelter
from the rain, and something to eat. We feel grateful. I could sleep on
a board and be thankful for the privilege.”

The man took a candle and started up the steep stairs that seemed
almost like a ladder, with the two lads following after. They found
themselves in what appeared to be an unfinished loft. The rain could be
heard beating softly on the roof. On the bare floor was a thick feather
mattress, and some bedclothes, as well as two pillows.

“That looks good to me,” remarked Amos, immediately.

“It is the best we can do,” said the peasant, as he set the candle
down, and bowing humbly backed toward the stairs, letting down the trap
after he had vanished.

“Why, we’ve got the whole upper part of the place to ourselves,”
observed Amos, as he looked curiously about him. “Seems like our attic
at home, come to think of it. Only I certainly hope there are not so
many rats prowling around as we’ve had to fight there. I’d hate to have
one nibble at my nose while I slumbered so sweetly on that bouncing
feather bed.”

“I suppose they have a small sleeping-place downstairs,” remarked Jack,
reflectively. “I wonder why they didn’t put us in there instead of up
here. Not that I object to this, for it’s just fine; and that patter
of the rain on the roof will lull us to sleep, I reckon. Still, I
suppose they didn’t want to bother with us down there; or they may have
had some other good reason.”

“For one I want to forget everything but that I’m as sleepy as they
make them,” and by the way Amos yawned as he said this there could be
no doubt that he meant every word of it.

They took off only their shoes and coats, for it was quite cool in the
room under the roof.

“Last in bed puts out the candle!” chuckled Amos, as he crawled under
the covers.

Jack performed this ceremony, and followed the other. He could not help
noticing that little streamers of faint light managed to find their way
up from below in certain places. This told him there were cracks in the
floor of the loft, a fact that did not surprise him in the least.

Amos was as good as his boast, it seemed. He had said he would be fast
asleep about as soon as his head struck the pillow. It was not long
before Jack knew from his even breathing that he had fulfilled his
threat.

Jack somehow seemed to lose his drowsy feeling after lying down, as
often happens to some persons, so that they are inclined to take the
first nap sitting in a chair. He found his mind becoming more active
than he liked. It seemed as though all kinds of things began to flit
through his brain, including the mystery surrounding the old couple
downstairs.

Becoming annoyed after he had lain there for nearly an hour with closed
eyes, and yet no nearer going to sleep than in the beginning, Jack
took himself sternly to task, and determined to forget all outside
happenings.

His resolution was immediately sorely tried, for had any one been
gifted with the eyes of a cat, capable of seeing in the dark, he might
have discovered Jack actually sitting up as though listening.

Had Amos awakened just then he might have asked his chum if he thought
he heard the squeak of a foraging rat. But Jack seemed interested
enough to quietly crawl out from under the covers and silently make his
way along to where the largest crack in the floor was to be found.

A short time afterward he was shaking Amos gently, and whispering in
his ear.

“Wake up, Amos, and don’t give a peep,” was what he said in the lowest
tone possible. “There’s something queer going on downstairs. A man has
come in; they opened and closed the door as softly as they could. They
are talking together after dropping the bar at the door. I’m afraid
these people are either not Belgians or else secretly in league with
the enemy. I plainly heard a word in German!”




CHAPTER XVIII. THROUGH A CRACK IN THE FLOOR.


Amos was no longer sleepy; indeed, the boy had never been more
wideawake in all the course of his life. What his cousin had just
whispered in his ear was enough to thrill him through and through.

“Can I see, too?” he asked eagerly, as though it would gratify him very
much if able to satisfy his curiosity in this regard.

“Yes, but creep along softly, and be careful,” he was instructed by
Jack.

Accordingly Amos began to move along after Jack, who led him directly
to the spot where he had found the widest crack. Presently both boys
were flat on their stomachs, and with their eyes glued to the slender
aperture.

Apparently Amos had no trouble about seeing, for before long he drew
back again. The murmur of low voices came up to them from below, and
he had found that it was just as Jack said.

A young man had come in, and was talking very earnestly with the
old people. Whatever it was engrossed their attention they glanced
suspiciously about them from time to time. Amos, looking further, had
seen that the bar was again across the door, and also that every little
window was carefully covered with some sort of dark material that would
prevent prying eyes from peering through into the room.

That some of the conversation had a connection with the two lads was
evidenced from the way the man pointed upward more than once. Amos,
too, believed he caught a German word spoken by one of the conspirators
below.

Was this a secret spy, and if so had that apparently harmless old
couple been bribed by German gold to betray the cause of their country?
It was a dreadful thought, and made Amos feel as cold as ice; for like
most American boys he had a perfect horror of treachery.

“Jack!” he whispered softly, touching the other with his groping hand.

“Yes, what is it?” asked his comrade in the same cautious way, though
the patter of the still falling rain on the nearby roof would very
likely have drowned what little noise their voices made.

“It looks bad, don’t you think?” asked Amos, as though eager to have
his own view confirmed by the opinion of his partner.

“It certainly does, I’m afraid,” said Jack.

“They act like they are plotting with that stranger,” suggested Amos.

It was just what Jack had been telling himself. In fact, the actions of
the old couple could be set down as mighty suspicious. All the while
they talked in those low tones they were looking toward the barred
door, and then up in the direction of the loft, just as guilty persons
might be expected to do.

Of course, in those trying times, for a Belgian to be caught having
secret connection with the enemy was equivalent to signing his own
death warrant, for there would be little mercy shown, no matter how
old and infirm he or she chanced to be. If, therefore, this couple were
treading on this dangerous ground, their confusion and nervousness when
the boys asked lodging could be readily understood; they had expected a
visit from the spy, and were afraid that the so-called Americans might
learn of his presence.

Jack was puzzled to know what might be the right course for them to
pursue under such extraordinary conditions. He felt sorry for that old
couple. Necessity might have forced them to accept a bribe and betray
their own kind.

Then again the idea of treachery was so repellent that the boy could
find no palliation for the dastardly crime. A spy may be a brave man,
taking his life in his hand in order to gain secret information that
will improve the chances of the cause he advocates; a traitor is a
sneak who, for gain, turns on his best friend.

Accordingly Jack hardened his heart against that old couple. They
had appealed to his sympathy on account of their age and apparent
infirmity; but even that must not be used as a cloak to defend their
base conduct. Many lives of brave fighting men among the Allies might
be lost through the information they were even now confiding to that
heavy-set young German spy.

Jack again lay flat so as to watch, and Amos copied his example. It
was not easy to ask questions and hear the answers; so that perhaps he
could gather up more information by using his own eyes.

Apparently those below were more than ever alarmed over the possibility
of interruption from some source. Even as the two boys in the loft
overhead renewed their eavesdropping tactics they saw that the old man
had pressed a finger on his lips as though he would entail silence on
the other two.

After that he glided over and carefully lifted the table that stood in
one part of the apartment, and which was different from the larger one
at which they had partaken of that evening meal some time before.

Amos, seeing what he was doing, glued his eye more eagerly than ever
to the crevice, not wishing to lose a single thing. He watched the old
man cast aside a piece of rag carpet that had covered this section of
floor. Then to the surprise of the boys he lifted a regular trap in the
floor, disclosing a dark aperture.

Why, it was just like one of those old-time stories Amos could remember
reading, that pertained to haunted mansions, traps in the floor, secret
chambers, and passages, and even tunnels leading out from the cellars
underneath. The boy could almost believe he must be dreaming, and yet,
as he put out his hand and felt Jack alongside, he knew it was the real
thing.

Undoubtedly they meant that the spy should hide there, for some reason
or other. The old woman had a bundle in her hand that might contain
food, Amos concluded, and this she turned over to the stranger. Whoever
the party was he did not seem at all averse to vanishing in those black
depths; in fact, Amos considered that he acted as though only too
willing.

There must have been some sort of ladder leading downward, for they
could see him descending. Then the woman ran over and, snatching up
the candle from the shelf, held it as though more or less solicitous
that the other might not slip and lose his footing on the rounds of the
ladder.

The boys saw the unknown flip his hand upwards just before he was
utterly lost to sight in the gloom that lay heavy down under the trap.
Then the old man lifted the section of flooring and allowed it to fall
back into place again, though careful that it made no perceptible sound
while so doing.

After that the strip of rag carpet was carefully replaced, and on top
of that he lifted the table. All was as innocent looking as before, and
no one not in the secret would ever suspect that down underneath the
cottage floor lay a strange secret and which had all the earmarks of
treachery to the cause of the Allies.

The old man and his wife now moved to the other end of the room. They
were talking it all over in soft tones, and Amos could see that
apparently the man tried to encourage his better half, for he seemed to
be assuring her that what they were doing was for the best.

Amos, lying there a prey to varied thoughts, was sorry for them. He
actually believed that the temptation must have been too much for their
standard of loyalty to their sorely stricken country. With the gold
they would receive for this work perhaps they meant to go to America,
there to build a new home amidst strangers, and forget if they could
the land they had betrayed.

“Oh! it’s too cruel, and I can hardly believe any one would be so mean
as to do such a thing,” Amos was saying to himself, as though trying
his best to find a gleam of comfort.

Jack, pulling at his arm, aroused him.

“Let’s get back to the mattress, and talk it over,” the Western boy
said in his ear, and at that they both began to move softly along, Jack
apparently having a thorough knowledge of the attic, as though he had
made a mental map of his surroundings at the time the candle still
burned.

Once again they stretched themselves out there. If a board creaked
under their weight, as they moved so cautiously, it could easily have
been mistaken for a gust of wind outside whining around the corners of
the cottage.

Amos was eager to hear from his chum. He placed such an exaggerated
value upon Jack’s opinions that in this emergency he wanted to learn
what the other thought about it, what their course should be, and all
other things along similar lines.

“Do you still think that he must be a spy, Jack?” he asked, to get a
start made.

“I can’t see anything else so far,” replied the other. “Their fear of
being interrupted seemed to say as much. Then the several words spoken
in plain German make that stronger. It must be the man is afraid to go
out again, which was why they’ve hidden him down in the cellar.”

“P’raps what information they mean to give him isn’t quite complete
yet, and he’ll have to stay over until the next night?” suggested Amos.

“That isn’t a bad idea,” commented the ranch boy, soberly.

“But, Jack, what ought we do about it?” asked Amos. “’Course this isn’t
any funeral of ours. We’re neutrals; but I hate a traitor so much I
feel like setting my heel on one as I would on a viper. If these silly
old people have gone and sold themselves for German gold, they ought to
be punished for it. That’s what I think, Jack; now tell me if you’re of
the same mind,” and Amos stopped whispering to give his chum a chance
to speak.




CHAPTER XIX. JACK DEMANDS THE TRUTH.


Jack hesitated a short time before replying. It was plain that he
hardly knew just what their proper course should be, and wanted to be
sure he was right before attempting to sway his companion.

What Amos had said must have had an influence upon him, because as
American-born boys they nearly always felt alike in such matters. Yes,
they meant to be as neutral as they could. Yet there were some crimes
that must prevent them from holding out against taking sides. One of
these concerned the condoning of treachery.

“Amos,” he finally said, in the other’s ear, “I reckon we’re as one
about that. We can’t stand by and see the cause of the Allies suffer
through the work of any renegade Belgian, no matter if he is an old
man.”

“Good for you, Jack! I like to hear you say that. Now tell me the next
step we must take, for talking without deeds isn’t worth a snap.”

“We must go down there, Amos!”

“Yes, and face the old folks, you mean, of course?” ventured the other
lad, fervently.

“We’ll tell them what we chanced to see, and then force them to explain
this mystery,” Jack continued. “Perhaps they can do it; perhaps there
is something about this queer happening we don’t understand. They’ve
got to tell us!”

“Yes, that’s so, Jack, we’ll put the law straight down to them; but
say, what if they choose to defy us? Suppose they say it’s none of our
business if we’re what we claim to be,--from across the sea,--because
America isn’t in this scrap. What then, Jack, old fellow?”

There was no longer any hesitation on the part of the ranch boy. Once
he had made up his mind to do a thing, he could see his whole course
clear before him.

“Leave that to me, Amos,” he said, firmly. “I’ll find a way to keep the
spy fast down in that cellar until we can summon help. He must not be
allowed to escape unless his claws are first of all well trimmed.”

“Now by that I guess you mean we’ll see that he isn’t carrying any
information in the shape of a map or news about the Allies’ reserves?”
Amos ventured to say.

“Just about that,” added Jack. “Come, let’s get our shoes on, and then
open the trap to go down.”

“They’ll be some surprised to see us so soon again,” suggested Amos, as
he started to get a foot in a shoe.

“Perhaps fairly stunned as well, if, as we believe, they’re guilty of
such a foul trick against their kind,” added Jack.

“Do you think the old couple would show fight, and try to get us in a
hole when they found that we were on to their game?” asked Amos.

“They didn’t strike me as fighters, either one of them,” he was told.
“All the same it will pay us to keep our eyes fixed on them pretty much
all the time.”

They managed to get their shoes and coats on. To facilitate progress,
Jack lighted the fragment of tallow candle which had been left in their
charge at the time they were conducted to the loft.

“I’m all ready,” announced Amos, finally. Somehow, he did not take
quite as much pains to moderate his voice as before; perhaps he fancied
that since they meant to drop down upon the old couple it might be
as well to give them a little warning to the effect that their young
guests were moving about.

So Jack bent over and lifting the trap opened the path to the lower
part of the Belgian domicile. It was characteristic of Jack that he
should with his other arm bar the way, so that Amos could not have
preceded him even though he attempted to do the same.

As the two lads came down the steep stairs from the loft they found the
man and woman staring at them. Their whole demeanor expressed alarm,
yes, bordering on a panic. It was as though they had suddenly realized
that those above must be aware of what was going on under that
supposed to be friendly roof covering a Belgian family.

When the boys advanced toward them the man arose to his feet. He held
on to the table as if for support, showing that in his fright his limbs
threatened to give way under him.

Amos again felt that twinge of pity for the two. He shut his teeth
firmly together in order to fight against any weakness. In that moment
Amos felt doubly glad it was Jack rather than himself who would
engineer matters, for he had much more confidence in his chum than he
could ever feel in himself.

Jack faced the two old people, for the woman had also managed to gain
her feet, looking as white as chalk, and with a drawn expression about
her eyes, as though she anticipated receiving a terrible blow.

“W-w-what does this mean, young messieurs; does not the bed suit you?”
stammered the peasant, trying to appear natural though the attempt was
a farce.

“It was better than we had any right to expect,” said Jack. “But by
chance we found you had entertained a visitor down here, and we have
come to ask a few questions of you. It is suspicious that he should
come in the night, and also while it storms. You did not want any eye
to see him, so you covered the windows and fastened the door. We may be
Americans, but the cause of the Allies is more to our liking than that
of the Kaiser; and we can’t stand idly by if there is any treacherous
work going on.”

The man raised his arms and let them fall again, while his wife hid her
face in her hands and seemed to be weeping, for her shoulders heaved
convulsively.

“M’sieu, I do not understand!” muttered the peasant, helplessly.

“Then I will try to explain better,” continued the boy, firmly. “A
stranger comes to your door and you let him in secretly. You hold a
conversation with him. We overhear a few words spoken, and they are
in German. That looks bad, Monsieur. It makes us believe you are in
league with the enemy of your country, the same Germany that has made
Belgium a wilderness because her sons dared oppose the passage of
the Kaiser’s great army to strike a mortal blow at France. Are you
following what I say?”

Amos could see that the old man, greatly moved, had to wet his lips
before he was able to speak. It was as though his emotions almost
overpowered him; and when he did manage to find his voice his words
came as from a distance.

“Yes, but, M’sieu, I do not understand. Do you mean that I, François
Bart, would inform the enemy of things that must cause the death of
Belgian soldiers?”

“Do you deny it then?” demanded Jack, frowning so as to impress the
other with the fact that he and his companion were serious in all they
said and did.

“But, M’sieu, that would make me a traitor, you see, and surely I would
sooner have my right hand burned off than lift it against my king, whom
we madly worship. You cannot mean that, young M’sieu?”

“Listen,” Jack continued, “all these things which we have seen are
suspicious. It is none of our business which army wins in a square
stand-up fight; but it does concern us when treachery is employed to
stab in the back. You deny that you mean anything that is wicked and
wrong. Then convince us of your innocence, and we will be only too glad
to go back again to our bed and sleep.”

The man exchanged pitiful looks with his wife. They conferred together
in whispers and Amos knew they were speaking in French, as most
Belgians in the lower tier of towns did, while those toward Holland
and Germany were as a rule accustomed to talking in German when not in
Flemish.

“Tell me what you want me to do, young M’sieu?” implored the old man,
turning once again toward the chums.

“You have secreted a stranger down below. Even now I can hear him
knocking with his knuckles on the floor, as though he has heard what we
are saying, and wants you to move the heavy table so as to allow him
to come up; but you will, of course, not think of trying anything like
that.”

“But--who do you suspect him of being?” faltered the man, still
wringing his hands as though greatly stirred up.

“He spoke German words,” said Jack, sternly, “and it made us believe he
might be a German spy!”

At that the woman gave vent to a gasp. She threw herself forward on her
knees and held up her clasped hands to Jack.

“Not that, it is not that, I say to you!” she moaned. “It is bad
enough, Heaven knows, but nothing could tempt us to have communication
with the hated enemies of our country. Our hearts are sore, almost
breaking with the shame; but if my man was younger and had his sight he
would be there in the line, with a gun in his hands. It is not as bad
as that, oh! M’sieu, believe me!”

Amos had been deeply stirred by all this. He readily saw that the pair
were in deadly earnest, and he awaited the summing up of the whole
matter with the most intense eagerness.

“Then you must tell us just who that stranger is we saw come in here,
and who is now hidden under the floor. If not a German spy what is he,
François Bart?”

The peasant turned to the woman, as though he dared not take the
responsibility of disclosing their great secret on his own shoulders.

“Shall I tell them?” he asked, hoarsely.

She nodded her head, and at that he burst out with a torrent of words:

“He is our only son, young M’sieu, who has been given a faint heart.
Deserting from the brave army of the king, he has come secretly to us
to hide. That is our shame, our grief.”




CHAPTER XX. AROUSING A COWARD.


“Oh! what do you think of that?” Amos was heard to exclaim.

He looked as though he could hardly realize he understood the correct
meaning of the poor old distracted peasant’s lament. François was
standing there with his head bent; his wife still on her knees rocked
to and fro with many groanings, as though her heart might be nearly
broken.

Indeed, it was a strange spectacle for those two American lads, and
one that gave them a thrill. They had felt wonderfully shaken when
witnessing the rush of Teuton files on the British lines, and watched
scores, yes even hundreds of furiously fighting men fall in heaps; but
this was entirely different. Now pity filled their boyish hearts. They
believed they could fully comprehend the measure of shame that must
wring the hearts of this honest couple.

They had but one child, and he a young man who should be at the front
standing bravely up in defense of his beloved country. Instead of that
he had deserted from his regiment, and made his way secretly home,
possibly sending his parents word in some way that he was coming in
order to have them hide him.

Those old people had the right spirit in their hearts. The man, yes,
and even the old housewife also, would have been ready and willing to
risk and lose their own lives in the great cause of king and country.
To discover that their only boy had a “yellow streak” in his nature
filled them with shame and bitter regret. They feared that if the
truth ever became known they might never again look their friends and
neighbors in the face--those devoted patriots on all sides who had made
the greatest possible sacrifices.

Jack was almost as much shaken with compassion for the couple as Amos
gave evidence of being. He put out a hand and seized that of the man,
which he insisted on squeezing in his whole-hearted boyish fashion.

“I am sorry that we forced you to tell us this, François Bart,” he
said, and at the time Amos wondered why his chum spoke so loudly, until
presently he remembered that the boy soldier was just beneath that
floor, and could possibly overhear every word that was said, as Jack
doubtless intended should be the case.

“You see, M’sieu,” explained the peasant abjectly, “Jean is our child,
and we love him. We could not turn him away from our door, for if seen
he might be arrested and shot at ten paces. So we are in great distress
of mind. We could let everything we have in this world go, and still
smile, but to know that our flesh and blood is a--_coward_. Oh! that is
worse than death itself to both of us.”

“Then you do not stand back of him in his desertion?” asked Jack.

“M’sieu, if the news came to us that our Jean had fallen covered with
glory in his place at the front we could rejoice, and be satisfied, for
we must always remember that he gave his poor life for our country. But
that he should turn out to be a deserter, and run from duty breaks our
hearts!”

Jack felt sure he detected some sort of movement under the floor.
He believed the wretched Jean must have his ear pressed against the
boards, and was not losing a single word of all that they said. So when
he spoke again the ranch boy kept his voice at a pitch sufficiently
high to be heard.

“We are sorry for you, François,” he said. “It must be a terrible thing
for a father and mother in Belgium to know that their only son is a
coward, and that he has allowed his fears to force him to shirk his
plain duty to his king. Have you done all you can to convince him of
his mistake?”

“M’sieu, we have pleaded, and almost threatened, but he keeps on saying
that although his heart seems to be brave enough, his legs refuse to
carry him again into the terrible battle where his comrades are falling
all around him.”

“Then he has already been under fire?” asked Jack, in a surprised tone.

“Oh! yes, and one of his friends who came back badly wounded told
us Jean was showing himself almost a hero. We believed that the old
failing in his blood had been conquered. Then we had word from him, and
this night he came, trembling with fear, saying that he must be hidden
until he could find a chance to cross over into England where he would
be safe.”

“Try once more to arouse him,” said Jack. “Appeal to him by everything
that he holds dear. Tell him that you would sooner see him brought
home dead than that he desert in the face of danger. Perhaps the spasm
of fear may have passed by then. He may have come to his senses,
and realize that his true nature is not that of a coward. He has
already shown that he can stand up under fire and give a good account
of himself. And, François, we both hope all may come out well with
you--and Jean! Now we will be glad to go up into the loft once more and
get some sleep.”

The peasant looked a little more hopeful; even his wife arose from her
knees, to the great relief of Amos, who disliked very much seeing her
in that position.

“It is kind of you, young M’sieu!” exclaimed the man. “Then you believe
what we have told you? You no longer suspect us of harboring a German
spy under our poor roof?”

“We are sorry for you, that is all,” Jack told him. “You need fear
nothing from us, since we would not betray your secret for worlds. All
we hope is that your boy Jean will be able to shake himself together,
and resolve to go back to his duty like every Belgian who is worth his
salt is doing this day. Come along, Amos, let’s try for another sleep.”

When the two boys had climbed once more into the loft, to find the
candle still lighted as Jack had left it, of course the first thing
Amos did was to ask his chum a few questions that were burning on his
tongue.

“Do you think he heard what was said, Jack; and was that the reason you
spoke in such a loud tone?”

“You’ve guessed it, Amos. Somehow, I felt so sorry for that poor
couple in their bitter humiliation and shame that I just wanted to see
if I couldn’t arouse whatever spark of patriotism there might be in
Jean’s soul. Yes, I’m sure he caught every word we said.”

“The question is, will it do him a particle of good, Jack? He must be a
pretty poor specimen of a young fellow to act the way he has.”

“Well, that can only be proved by time,” Jack told him, with a shake of
his head. “It would be next door to a miracle, of course, and yet such
things have happened before and may again. Honestly, I don’t believe
the boy’s such a terrible coward as he lets himself think.”

“He passed through more or less fighting, they said.”

“Yes, and something has happened to give him a scare,” declared Jack,
who had a sagacious way of looking at all such things. “If he could get
a firm grip on himself once more there’s still a chance that he might
win honors enough to wipe out the disgrace he’s made his folks feel.
Anyway, I hope that will happen.”

From the way Jack yawned it was evident that he did not feel like
discussing the matter any further. Amos took the hint, for he, too,
began to feel sleepy, now that the cause of their recent excitement had
passed away.

So he also gaped, and started to crawl under the covers, after he had
again removed his shoes and coat. Jack blew out the candle, and in the
darkness they composed themselves to forget all their troubles. Since
Amos was so deeply concerned in finding his long missing brother, whom
he really believed to be in the ranks of the Allies serving as an
aviator, this often proved to be a difficult task; but being unusually
tired after that arduous day, he presently managed to lose himself once
more.

The long night passed. If from time to time there stole in through
the open window of that loft in the humble Belgian cottage the
deep-throated growl of those great German howitzers such as had reduced
the steel forts at Liége, Namur and since then other fortifications
deemed impregnable, the sound did not seem to disturb the chums any
more than distant thunder would have done. They were by this time
becoming so accustomed to hearing the mutterings of fierce war that
they did not pay as much attention to the same as had been the case
some time back.

There was no further cause for a sudden awakening. Once, however, when
Jack found himself awake he raised his head to listen, thinking the low
murmur of voices had sifted to his ears. When he made sure that it came
from below he might have smiled as though satisfied, but the fact could
not be made manifest in the gloom of that loft.

“I wonder if the seed did take root, and will it grow?” was all
Jack whispered to himself, as he calmly turned over to continue his
interrupted sleep.

So the dawn found them. Daylight, sweeping in through the small windows
told Jack it was time they were up. He aroused Amos, who was apparently
content to linger indefinitely in his cozy bed.

“It’s morning, Amos!” he called out. “Time we were moving, if we mean
to do anything today.”

“And say, Jack, seems to me I can smell cooking going on in the
bargain, which is always as good as a goad to get me out of bed,” with
which Amos proceeded to reach for his shoes.

Yes, they could hear the old couple moving about below stairs. Jack
was not sure but it did seem to him that their footsteps had a more
sprightly ring. Somehow the very suspicion of such a thing did him
good, though he did not think it worth while to mention the fact to
Amos.

“We must be on the border of Ypres, don’t you think?” Amos remarked,
showing that he was naturally thinking of the chances they had of
finding the daring aviator who answered to the name of Frank Bradford,
and whom he fully believed must be his own brother.

“Everything points that way,” replied Jack. “Looking out, I’ve already
seen troops hurrying past, British Tommies at that, and all looking fit
for any kind of fighting if their eager faces counted for anything. But
if you’re ready we’ll go down below, get a bite, and then make the old
people accept all we can spare; for the chances are they’ll need every
franc they can get together before the end of this nasty business comes
around.”

Amos was thinking mostly of the delightful odor of cooking as he came
down the ladder-like stairs that led from the loft to the lower floor
of the cottage. With Jack it was somewhat different, for his first
thought was to look keenly at François and his wife, who had faced
about on hearing the trap raised.

When Jack saw that the careworn expression had been magically lifted
from those furrowed faces he felt almost like giving a shout of real
satisfaction.

Straight over to them he hurried, still keeping his eyes fastened on
their telltale faces.

“What is the good word, François?” he asked, in his
straight-from-the-shoulder fashion; and indeed there was hardly any
necessity to even ask that much, Jack thought, since appearances speak
more loudly than words.

“Oh! young M’sieu, what can we say to thank you?” burst out the old
peasant, while his good wife nodded vehemently to show that in her mind
she echoed all her “good man” said. “The best that ever could happen
has come to us. Jean has seen a great light. He has won the great
victory over himself. Yes, he signalled to me to let him come up, and
then and there he swore that he would go straight back to his place in
the fighting line, and die a dozen deaths before quitting again. We are
so happy! Now we can look our friends and neighbors in the face without
feeling a cold hand at our hearts. Jean may live to see us again; but
if he should not surely the Good Father above will console us if we
knew that he died for the king!”

Amos had to furtively rub his eyes as though some mote had suddenly
blown in there; even Jack felt his own vision a little obscured as he
pressed the hands of the relieved old people, who no longer held their
heads down in shame.

“Come,” said Jack, cheerily, “let’s have a bite and then we must leave
you, François.”




CHAPTER XXI. BOMBARDED BY A ZEPPELIN.


Shortly afterwards the two boys said good-bye to their host and his
wife, and started out to find headquarters in Ypres. They quickly
discovered that the badly battered town was full of marching soldiers,
and all the other things that go hand in hand with modern war, even to
a number of armored cars which sped past them on the road, exciting the
wonder of Amos greatly.

“Why, just see how they’ve managed to build up that metal shield around
the men aboard, Jack! They seem to be safe from ordinary bullets
fired by a machine gun. There were two Maxims aboard that last car, I
noticed.”

“Yes,” added the other, deeply interested, “fighting today begins to
take on some of the old-time ways. You’d almost think of Roman chariots
to see those cars flying along the road, only the galloping horses
have been displaced by a power a hundred times more powerful. But there
must have been some pretty warm engagements around this town, if the
battered walls can tell the story.”

“Huh! it doesn’t look to me worth the powder that’s been wasted,”
remarked Amos. “Why should both Germans and the Allies want to get and
hold possession of Ypres, I’d like to know? Thousands must have fallen
here, because everywhere you look you see those mounds where the dead
have been buried.”

“They consider it a place of strategic importance, which is the only
explanation I can give you,” Jack observed. “Perhaps it’s what we’d
call a railway center over in the States. Then the only good road
leading to Dunkirk and the Channel runs out from Ypres; and you know
the Kaiser is dead set on getting his army where he can throw those
shells over on to the shore of England. That mania with him has cost
pretty much all this terrible slaughter.”

Amos shook his head as though his feelings overpowered him. He must
have been thinking that human life was held pretty cheaply when it
could be thus thrown away for a freak idea, a pet object of revenge
that in the end could not amount to much so far as ending the war was
concerned.

Of course, the two boys aroused considerable curiosity. It was only
natural that this should be so. Dozens of the soldiers, humming
_Tipperary_ as they strode past in ranks, usually heading toward the
fighting zone, waved a hand toward them in friendly greeting; and the
chums invariably gave an answering salute.

“I guess they think we’re English boys,” suggested Amos, when this had
happened a number of times. “They know from our looks, and the fact of
our being here, we can never be German anyhow.”

“Now, I’m of the opinion they glimpse that little flag in your
buttonhole,” ventured Jack, quickly. “It tells them who and what we
are. While the United States is trying hard to be neutral in this big
war, and treat both sides alike, still, as Germany can’t get any war
supplies and the Allies do, on account of their controlling the Seven
Seas, these British must look on us as near-allies. Besides, if they
ever read the papers printed on our side of the water they’d know
that the biggest part of the American nation believes in their cause,
and prays that in the end militarism will be knocked out, with a new
Germany to rise on the ruins of the old.”

That might sound like pretty strong talk coming from a boy; but then
Jack was wise beyond his years. Besides, he had looked upon strange
sights since coming abroad. Education develops rapidly under such
conditions.

“I should say Headquarters might lie over in that direction, Jack?”
suggested Amos, pointing as he spoke. “I notice that in most cases the
troops come from that way, which would tell the story, you know.”

“Good idea, Amos, and one that does your Boy Scout training credit.
According to my mind it’s just as you say, and we’ll see if we can get
an interview with the general commanding this district. He must be
a mighty busy man, and only for that magical letter of introduction
we’re carrying around with us I’m afraid our chances of seeing him and
getting a little confab would be next to nothing. But when he looks on
that signature K. of K. there’s little he can refuse us.”

“Yes,” added Amos, grinning happily, “that was a master stroke on your
part, asking dad to give us a letter to his old friend and comrade,
General Kitchener, after you learned how close they had once been in
South Africa or Egypt long ago. When I see their eyebrows go up, and
that look come on their faces, it makes me think of a talisman such as
they used of old. I can imagine Ali Baba saying the magical words ‘open
sesame’ before the rock wall that always swung open to the signal.
We’ve got the same wonderful magnet in our well-worn letter signed by
the Minister of War over in London.”

Moving steadily along they quickly found themselves getting among
crowds of civilians and soldiers who filled the streets of the little
old Belgian town, now a ruined place.

“What are they all staring up at, I wonder?” remarked Amos. “It must
be some of those rash pilots driving German Taubes are circling around
again, trying to locate hidden batteries of the Allies. Oh! Jack, look
there, that’s a Zeppelin I do believe.”

Jack had already decided this for himself. Away up among the fleecy
clouds of the early morning they could see what looked like a bulky
cigar-shaped object that was speeding along its course. It was too high
for any anti-air craft gun to hope to reach it. Possibly Allied birdmen
would presently be sent aloft to try and engage the enemy, or failing
that chase him off.

All at once there arose a shout that was taken up by a thousand excited
voices. The entire crowd started to sway and break. Men dashed for any
sort of shelter that came most convenient. Others threw themselves flat
upon their faces, believing in their sudden panic they would be in far
less danger if they hugged the ground closely.

Jack had himself detected some object falling from aloft. It might
have been a cast-off sandbag, but in these perilous war times one
must expect something more destructive than this. He too would have
followed the example of those close by and dropped flat, only that he
saw the falling object was bound to miss the spot where he and his chum
stood by a big margin. In fact, it would drop outside the town, as the
hostile airship was at too high an altitude for the marksman to aim
with any reasonable certainty of success.

Instantly there came a terrific boom. Jack and Amos felt the ground
tremble under them with the concussion, and they did not need to be
told it had been a most destructive bomb that had been dropped from the
swiftly moving Zeppelin.

[Illustration: Instantly there came a terrific boom.--_Page 249._]

Almost immediately afterwards came a second shock, with the same quiver
of the racked earth following the explosion. When even a third made the
atmosphere seem to be surcharged with thunder Amos sank to his knees
and pulled at the legs of his companion.

“Drop down, Jack,” he called, almost frantically. “How do we know but
what the very next bomb will be close by? We don’t want to be torn into
fragments if we can help it, do we?”

“It’s all over, I reckon, by now,” Jack assured him. “The Zeppelin
seems to have passed well over us; and besides there’s a whole flock of
Allied aeroplanes rising like birds to give chase. This wreck of a town
has had another close call, I take it. Those bombs were terrible ones,
and must have been meant for a purpose.”

“What do you think the Germans were after? I don’t suppose now they
knew for a minute Jack Maxfield and Amos Turner had come to town?”

Of course Jack understood that his chum was only saying this in a
spirit of sport.

“They’re after bigger game than two American boys this time, Amos,” he
said.

“Then you think they meant to catch somebody high up in authority; is
that it?” demanded the other.

“It has probably become known through some of those secret channels
by which the Germans learn so much that the British have their
headquarters established somewhere in Ypres just now, even if it is
shifted often to confuse them. And because the fighting line has been
pushed so far away they can’t send shells in here they’ve resorted to
another means for trying to give the British a scare.”

“The crowd’s pushing over to view what happened,” remarked Amos; “shall
we go, too, and find out what a bomb dropped by a Zeppelin can do?”

“I’d like to say I’d seen the effect of such a thing,” returned Jack.
“We’re not in such a rushing hurry but what we can afford the little
time it’ll be likely to take; so come along, Amos.”

Together then they joined the throng that was hurrying toward the
quarter where that last terrible air bomb had exploded on striking the
earth.

“What great luck that it fell in an open place, and never a human being
was injured, seems like!” exclaimed Amos, gaping at the tremendous
hole in the ground, with the earth thrown in every direction for a
distance of many yards.

“If a monster meteor, hissing hot, had fallen here it couldn’t have
smashed things worse than that!” Jack declared. “From the way things
are thrown around I’d say if that bomb ever struck a house the people
inside would never know what had happened.”

“Then they shot it down at haphazard, or else knew in what part of the
town Headquarters lay, and aimed to hit the same?” suggested Amos.

A soldier in khaki overheard them and started a conversation. Doubtless
he was more or less curious to know who and what they were, and why
they had the run of the British camps when so many spies were known to
be prowling around. He seemed to eye them more or less suspiciously,
especially when Jack made no effort to enter into explanations, not
caring to take every ordinary Tommy into his confidence.

In the end this happened to bring them into new difficulties, for
the soldier must have immediately gone about voicing his suspicions,
because about the time Jack said they had seen enough and had better
be going Amos noticed that quite a number of soldiers started to
cluster around them, nor did they show any intention of opening up to
let the two boys pass.

Angry looks were being bent on the lads. Amos was indignant, but Jack
could easily understand what a little thing in these days of bitter
warfare can cause the seeds of suspicion to be sown, making the harvest
quick and unpleasant.

Just then an officer came bustling up, followed by another bunch of
Tommies, and Jack understood what had happened when he saw in their
midst the very same tall man in khaki who had tried to pry into their
affairs.

“There they are, Captain!”

“German spies they must be!” called out another voice.

“Ten to one they signalled to that same airship where to drop the bally
old bombs!” cried a third soldier, angrily.

Loud outcries attested to the ugly temper of the gathering crowd.
There could be no telling to what ends that mob might go, sooner or
later. Despite the fact that they were amenable to military orders they
might get beyond the control of authority, and start to wreak summary
vengeance upon the boys, neither of whom showed any signs of being
alarmed.

“Captain,” said Jack, quietly, though he had to raise his voice so as
to be heard above the rising clamor, “we are just what we say, American
boys. We have made our way into Ypres in order to see your commanding
officer. It is foolish for any one to connect us with that German
Zeppelin, when we were in just as much danger as the rest. Please take
us to Headquarters without any delay. We have something to show the
general; and after he has seen it you will find that he’ll extend the
honors of the camp to us.”

The captain must have known that if he held back much longer the
excited men were apt to get out of bonds, and do something that would
not be according to military discipline; so he evidently determined
to follow the advice of the boy who seemed to be able to retain his
presence of mind, regardless of the overhanging difficulties.




CHAPTER XXII. AT HEADQUARTERS IN YPRES.


“Both of you boys come with me,” the British captain told them,
evidently capable of acting on the spur of the moment. “I’ll see that
you get to Headquarters all right.”

His actions told that he was a man who knew what to do in an emergency.
First of all he stepped between the boys, and put an arm through
theirs. Then he commanded a batch of passing soldiers under a subaltern
to swing around them, so that on every side they were protected from
the crowd.

After that they started off briskly. Jack looked at his chum and nodded
his head as if to say that it was more than fortunate for them they
chanced to come across such a level-headed officer in their time of
need.

A crowd started to follow after them, and seeing this the resolute
captain gave a sharp order that caused the guard to turn and make
threatening gestures with the bayonets on their guns. After that, as
though recognizing the fact that such an officer was not to be trifled
with, the mob fell back and scattered into fractions.

The danger was evidently past, at least so far as that quarter was
concerned. It remained to be seen how they would get on with the
general. Having the utmost faith in the talisman they carried, neither
Jack nor Amos felt much fear. In this crisis of the country’s history
none but sensible men would be in command of the King’s forces in the
field; and they could depend on just treatment, which was all they
asked.

There was evidently no desire in those days of hovering Zeppelins
and hostile aeroplanes capable of dropping dangerous bombs, to make
Headquarters in any way conspicuous. No flags decorated the humble
building to which the American boys were now taken. In fact, unless
the steady flow of messengers and orderlies were noted one would never
dream a general high in authority had taken it over for his personal
quarters.

“Remain here while I see if the general is in and can give you a few
minutes,” was what the captain told them, with which he vanished beyond
the two grim sentries who guarded the doorway.

“Let me tell you we’ve been mighty lucky to have such a friend bob up
when we needed one,” remarked Jack, as they awaited the reappearance of
the officer.

“I kind of think he’s taken quite a fancy to you, Jack,” the other
observed. “He must have a soft spot in his heart for Americans. Every
time he looked around at one of us he’d sort of smile. I’m going to ask
him if he ever lived across the water in our country. Here he comes. I
think it’s all right, and the general will see us, because he looks as
‘pleased as Punch,’ as these Britishers say.”

Amos guessed rightly, for the captain nodded his head as he came up to
them, still surrounded by the men in khaki.

“You are to come in with me, boys. The general has a few minutes of
leisure, and will listen to what you have to say,” he told them, as he
dismissed the men.

“I hope you’ll excuse me, Captain,” said Amos, bent on satisfying his
curiosity on the spur of the moment. “Something seems to tell me you
know America. Am I right about that, or is it a bad guess, sir?”

“I spent several years in Washington as an attaché to our Embassy
there,” the officer confessed. “It happens that I married an American
woman, so I can assure you I have a great many good friends over
there, two of whom I happen to know are in the Foreign Legion that was
organized in Paris to fight Prussian militarism. But come with me, as
the general’s time is precious. Whatever your errand may be over here I
wish you good luck.”

“Thanks, Captain, and the same to you!” exclaimed Amos, as he gave Jack
a wink, desiring to call his attention to the fact that for once his
guess had hit the bull’s-eye.

A minute later and they were ushered into the presence of the general.
Amos felt immediately that they would not have any difficulty in
gaining the good will of this high functionary. He had a keen eye,
and surveyed the two American boys curiously, as though finding it
difficult to understand why they should have been allowed to roam
almost at will over these fighting zones, when other non-combatants
were swept far to the rear for many reasons.

“Captain Sperry informs me you wished to have a brief talk with me,”
was what the general said in quick, terse tones that denoted unusual
energy. “First of all tell me who you are, why you are here, and how
in the name of all that’s wonderful you have been allowed safe conduct
through this war-torn region.”

As was usually the case, Jack took it upon himself to do the talking.
Amos always admitted that he was not in the same class with his cousin
when it came to making a good use of his vocal organs. In other words,
to use the words of some of their boy friends across the water, Jack
had the “gift of gab,” and had often been put in the “spell-binder”
division.

So Jack introduced Amos and himself. He went right at the root of the
matter, telling how Frank Turner had left home under a cloud, and then
how some years later his complete innocence had been established so
strangely.

Having in this fashion interested the general, who was human even
though a stern soldier, perhaps a martinet in his way as well, Jack
explained how they had been given a letter of introduction to Lord
Kitchener, and that the father of his chum had once been a warm friend
of the great soldier in the Soudan.

In somewhat of a dramatic fashion Jack told how they had been given a
paper by the British War Minister, and then presented the well-worn
document to the astonished general. He examined it eagerly, and then
looked at the two boys. The stern expression on his strong face had
changed to a friendly smile, owing to first of all the spell of Jack’s
boyish oratory, and then the sight of that honored signature.

“You are fortunate indeed, my young friends,” he told them, “in having
such a backing. I do not wonder any longer that you have been able to
penetrate our lines, and see much that has been going on, which other
eyes have not been able to observe. But I sincerely hope you may never
fall into the hands of the Germans, for that wonderful paper would seal
your fate. They would convict you as spies sent out by Lord Kitchener.
Now tell me what I can do for you?”

This was just what Jack was waiting for. Accordingly he explained how
in various ways they had come to firmly believe that the missing Frank
Turner had taken up aviation, and that at the breaking out of the war
had joined the British aerial corps under the name of Frank Bradford.

Jack was watching when he said this, and, just as he anticipated, the
general and captain, the latter of whom had been asked to remain in the
room during the interview, showed immediate signs of renewed interest,
proving that they recognized the name as belonging to one of their
most daring air pilots.

“If it turns out as you believe,” said the general, after Jack had gone
on to explain how they seemed to be chasing after a will-o’-the-wisp,
since Frank Bradford was heard of first in one part of the country and
then in another more remote region--“you have every reason to be proud
of that missing brother. He has been a bulwark of insurance for our
cause. There is hardly another aviator who has proven such a thorn in
the flesh to the enemy as Frank Bradford. I had not learned that he was
really an American. How about you, Captain?”

“Oh! yes, I was told so, General, though as a rule it was not generally
known. I have never met him, though other pilots have spoken of him to
me, and all seem to admire his wonderful nerve and skill.”

“Do you happen to know where he could be found at present, Captain?”
asked the commanding officer, bent on assisting the two brave boys as
far as he could.

“I heard some one say,” the other replied, “just a few days back, that
he ran across Frank Bradford at the front with your aerial squad,
General.”

“Of course, I would hardly have known of it,” remarked the commanding
officer, “because these men are modest, and hide their light under a
bushel, being often designated only by a number. It is too bad that you
boys did not know this when you were close to the front.”

“We watched a number of aviators flying and sending signals,” Jack
explained; “and my cousin even suggested that one of them might be his
brother; but we had no means of knowing, and thought the only way to
find out would be to make direct for Headquarters, General.”

Amos looked bitterly disappointed. To think that they may have been so
close to the one they were seeking and then miss him was aggravating,
to say the least.

“If you are so bent on finding him,” said the general, as though he
could tell from the look on Jack’s face there was no thought of letting
a little thing like this discourage them, “I will do what I can to
help you out.”

“It is very kind of you to say that, General!” declared Jack, his face
beaming with a broad smile as he turned toward Amos and winked.

The commanding officer drew a pad of paper toward him and hurriedly
wrote several lines upon a sheet, after which he signed it.

“That will allow you to continue your search, my lads,” he said, as he
handed the document to Jack, who folded and carefully placed it in an
inner pocket without reading what the other had written. “I deplore the
necessity that will take you once more through the dangerous zone of
fire, because it would grieve me to hear that any accident had befallen
you. We British know how to admire valor in boys; and I rejoice to know
that our American cousins across the sea possess the same manly spirit
we love to see in our own kith and kin at home.”

The general actually held out his hand to them, which Jack reckoned
to be an unusual thing for a commanding officer to do. But of course
he could unbend his dignity when dealing with boys, and this meeting
must have been a refreshing break in the monotony of strictly military
doings.

“The best of luck attend your search,” he told them at parting. “While
I may sympathize with the sacred object of your mission, deep down in
my heart I am hoping your brother will consider it his duty to stick
by his task. The Allies can ill afford to lose so brilliant a pilot at
just this critical stage of the terrible game of war.”

Jack knew that the busy general had given them much more of his
valuable time than common prudence would have dictated. That was
because he had taken an interest in their fortunes, and also in
themselves as typical representatives of Young America. So Jack bowed
and backed away, in which he was imitated by Amos.

Once again they were in the open air, with the deep muttering of the
battle coming from the front. The captain now held out his hand as
though to say he had pressing duties to attend to, and could not spare
further time to accompany them.

“We may be ordered to take our places in the line at almost any
minute,” he explained, “and I should be with my men, who are chafing at
the delay, being wild to get in action. So I will echo all the general
said. The best of luck attend you both, my lads. I have two boys at
home, and I assure you they love the country of their mother as well as
that to which their father owes allegiance.”

When they found themselves free to act the first thing Jack did was to
take out the paper given into his charge by the commanding officer and
examine it, with Amos leaning over his shoulder.

“Brief and to the point, as a soldier’s communications always should
be,” observed Jack; “but it covers the ground, and will keep any
British or Belgian patrol from interfering with our movements. I hardly
think such liberty has been granted to any other non-combatant in this
war. On the whole, I can see where it’s going to help me out in my
letters to my paper.”

“And now we’ve got to cover the same ground again, do we?” asked Amos.

“Pretty much so,” he was told by his comrade. “Only with this paper
from the general we may look to have all sorts of favors granted to us.
Who knows but what we may get a ride part of the way in an automobile,
or on a motor truck going for the injured? I mean to make an effort, if
a chance comes along.”




CHAPTER XXIII. A RIDE ON A GUN CAISSON.


“There’s the cottage of François Bart,” observed Amos, some time later,
as they passed through the village on the outskirts of Ypres.

“Yes, and some one is waving to us from the open door,” added Jack.
“It must be his good wife, and she has recognized her lodgers of last
night.”

“I hope they get no bad news about their boy from the front where the
Belgian army is holding out so stubbornly,” said Amos, reflectively.

“So long as he stands up to the job neither of them will complain,” the
other commented. “They felt the disgrace much more than they would the
stab if news came that Jean had fallen while doing his duty for his
country.”

“For one I’m glad we had a chance to run across a little side drama
like that, Jack. It showed us of what stuff these patriotic Belgians
are made. And you can find some mighty bright material for your
correspondence in that happening, too.”

Chatting after this fashion they trudged along. The way seemed fairly
familiar to them, since they had so recently come over it. As before,
the road was at times almost clogged with the numerous vehicles passing
back and forth. These consisted altogether of motor vans or lorries
going after more wounded, or fetching loads of the same from the front
where the battle still raged; cars containing officers hurrying to the
fighting line; artillery trains of cannon; supplies; ammunition, and
even more armored cars.

Then at one time the boys had to get out of the way when a squadron of
hard-riding cavalry swept past. Jack again believed many of these men
must have come from the Canadian Northwest, for they sat their saddles
after the free and easy fashion of cowboys. He was almost tempted to
give vent to a whoop just to see if some of them would answer; but
discretion or second thought caused him to forego this, as it could do
them no good, and might get them into trouble.

“Here comes a van heading our way,” called out Amos, about half an
hour after they had left Ypres, “and it seems to be nearly empty for a
change. Most of them are chock full of Tommies being rushed forward.
Jack, will you make the try with that paper the general gave us?”

“Surely,” returned the other, “if we can get them to stop. Here’s a bad
spot in the road, and they’ll have to go slow in passing. Now to see
what luck we have.”

When Jack made motions indicating that he wanted the driver of the
motor van to stop, possibly that worthy, seeing the bad spot in the
road, feared he might become mired. At any rate he pulled up. Jack had
his paper ready, and stepping up shoved it up at the chauffeur, who
was undoubtedly a Britisher, perhaps one who had up to recently been
driving some business van or motor ’bus in the congested streets of
London.

“Please read this communication given to us by the general in
command,” was what the boy said, without any show of bluster.

When the chauffeur glanced over the brief but pointed order that
every one in authority should render assistance to the bearer and his
companion, he knew instinctively what was wanted, for he at once made
room on the seat.

“If you want to go along, get aboard, young fellows!” he said,
and without waiting for further invitation they both clambered up
alongside, after which the big van started on again, bent on taking
another load of wounded to the hospitals in the rear, perhaps at
Dunkirk.

Amos noticed that the bottom of the van was covered with fresh hay, and
he was glad to discover no signs of previous occupancy.

The driver was curious to know why two boys were roaming around close
to where tens of thousands of soldiers were engaged in the gruesome
task of killing each other; it was only natural he should feel this
way, for that document he had examined, signed by the general, told
him Jack and Amos were no ordinary strollers bent on seeing the sights.

Jack thought it best to tell him just a little so that he might
understand how they stood in with the commander-in-chief at Ypres
Headquarters. It was as small a compensation as they could make in
return for being given such a splendid lift on their way.

Louder grew the discordant sounds that spoke of the hot work being done
along a line that must cover many miles of front. In places the Germans
must be attacking furiously again, hurling masses of fresh troops
forward in hopes of pressing the Allies back once more.

“But they’ve shot their blooming bolt,” said the van driver,
exultantly. “Gas is wot done it, I tell you; but our men have turned
and pushed the mob back a full mile or so, I hears. There we stick, and
they can’t budge us, try it as they will.”

Every chance Amos got, when the road was fairly clear of trees ahead,
he leaned forward and seemed to be intently examining the heavens as
though fearful that it might start in and rain again.

Jack knew, however, it was something besides this that was causing the
other to act as he did; and that it concerned those venturesome fliers
who during the entire day would be sailing back and forth through the
upper air currents, spying on the troop movements of the enemy, and
sending numerous valuable messages back to those who with glasses
bearing on the aeroplanes were reading to receive such news as came.

“I can see half a dozen of them sailing around away off there, Jack,”
remarked Amos, with a vein of deep anxiety in his voice and manner. “I
wonder if one of them can be Frank. They’re too far away right now for
me to say which belong to the Allies and which are Taubes of the enemy.”

The chauffeur, while not knowing why they should have any particular
interest in aeroplanes, kindly volunteered to pick out those that were
connected with the cause of the Allies.

“Germans always have a queer way of flying,” he explained. “They all
learn to do things the same way like they was parts of a big machine.
Our men go it every one like he learned his own style. But say, boys, I
have to turn off the road here and follow this trail which leads to a
hospital where I gets me load. If so be you’d want to keep on that way
you’re welcome to stay aboard with me.”

Jack, however, believed that their end would be best attained if they
kept on in a direct line for the village where they had passed that
night at the time the great German drive broke like a water dam, and
pressed the Allied armies back for several miles.

They trudged along for half a mile. Then back of them came a battery of
field guns, swinging to the front for service. The boys stepped out of
the way, and as the artillery swept past they waved a hand to the grim
men in khaki sitting on the seats of gun carriage and caisson.

“I wouldn’t mind riding on one of those, given half a chance,” Amos was
saying a little enviously, for as the horses were galloping there was
a promise that the fresh battery would soon be wheeled in position to
take toll of the charging Prussians.

“Look there!” exclaimed Jack. “The very last caisson has pulled up
right in front of us you might say. Something gone a little wrong with
a part of the harness, most likely. I wonder if our pass from the
general would get us a seat on that ammunition cart!”

“Try it, Jack!” advised his chum eagerly. “I’m not so struck on this
walking that I’d refuse a chance to ride on any kind of vehicle.
Besides, it’ll take us to the front all the sooner, you know.”

There were three men with the caisson that had stopped on the road.
Two of them were hurriedly fixing the harness so that it would work
easier. The third Jack saw must be a non-commissioned officer, perhaps
a corporal, who could afford to sit there and order the others what to
do.

Stepping quickly up, Jack held out his paper.

“This is signed by your general, sir,” he said rapidly, for fear the
halt would be discontinued before he had found his chance to make good.

“It’s altogether unusual, I know, but we are anxious to get forward,
and would like to be allowed to sit on the chest at the back while you
push ahead.”

“Utterly impossible, boy!” exclaimed the other, but about the same
time he took in what the commanding general had written, and his eyes
opened wide as he hastened to add. “Why, I hardly know what my duty
is. By this document I am commanded to assist you two boys in every
way possible, no matter whether it is against general orders or not.
Jump up and hold on, then, for we will have to move rapidly in order to
overtake the rest of the battery!”

Jack hastily put the paper safely away. He would not like to lose
that valuable document for a great deal, since it must stand as their
sponsor in the hunt for Frank Bradford. Hardly had he and Amos secured
a seat on the ammunition chest than the two gunners hustled into their
places. Then the horses were started on a furious gallop.

The two boys would never forget that wild ride over the rutty roads
beyond Ypres, where in places German shells had torn deep holes that
had later been filled up after a certain fashion. They had more or
less difficulty in holding on, for the caisson jumped frightfully when
passing over these ruts and holes. The whip was not spared, and the
steaming horses did their best to overtake the balance of the field
battery.

[Illustration: The two boys would never forget that wild ride over the
rutty roads beyond Ypres.--_Page 278._]

Amos could almost feel that he too wore a khaki uniform, and was
speeding to the battle line in order to take his share in the butchery,
the illusion was so complete.

It required more or less dexterity to turn part way around in order to
look where they were going. Jack having a better grip than his chum
volunteered to do this duty, and report progress from time to time.

“We’re overhauling the balance of the battery all right, by slow
degrees,” he told Amos. “I can see signs of the village ahead there,
now.”

“What’s left of it, I guess you mean, Jack,” said Amos, sadly, “because
you remember how we saw the German shells bursting in the streets,
and among the houses by the dozen. I’ll be more than surprised if any
buildings have been spared after such a furious bombardment. Will we
find our host the old burgomaster alive, or poor little Jacques still
marching up and down with his Belgian flag over his shoulder?”

“When the Germans were in the place at one time he may have had his
chance to spring his trap and carry out that childish vow he made,”
suggested Jack. “It’s more than likely the poor little chap has been
sent to join his father by a cruel German bayonet or a bursting shell.”

Several minutes later and Amos heard him utter an exclamation of
disappointment.

“What’s gone wrong now, Jack?” demanded the other.

“Why, the battery has turned off the road, and is heading through a
field at left angles,” replied Jack. “So we’ll have to drop off when we
get there and finish our journey to the village afoot.”

“Well, we got a mighty fine lift, all right,” admitted Amos, “and
shouldn’t complain. But they’re still at it hammer and tongs over
there, you notice. Those Germans never know when they’re licked, do
they? I reckon they’ve sent up fresh columns of troops as many as ten
times against the new line of British and Canadians organized. It’s nip
and tuck between them, because both sides are as stubborn as they make
them.”

“By this time the Kaiser has learned that the British can fight as
well as ever they could in the past,” said Jack. “He called their army
contemptible in the beginning, but I believe he meant in numbers, not
bravery; and it was, compared with the millions he could throw into the
field inside of two weeks, every man drilled and ready to do his part.
But here’s where we skip, and say good-bye to our friends the gunners!
They’ve slackened up speed for us; so jump, Amos, and be careful to
land on your feet, not on your nose!”




CHAPTER XXIV. WHAT LITTLE JACQUES DID.


Amos was smart enough to take all necessary precautions when jumping.
He did not meet with any accident, and was in condition to wave a jolly
farewell to the gunners in khaki, who had turned in their seats to see
the last of the American boys carrying that autograph letter from the
British commander.

“A rough and ready lot of fine chaps, I should say, Jack,” remarked
Amos, after they had watched the caisson whirl past an obstruction that
shut it out from their view.

“Yes, and it’s tough to think that perhaps not a corporal’s guard
of the whole squad will ever go back again to their English homes,”
replied the other. “To see the way they joke and make merry I don’t
believe that bothers one of them the least bit. When you stop to think
of it, the worst of a war in these times is that it takes off so many
hundreds of thousands of the finest young men, leaving cripples, old
fellows and those who are of little use in the world.”

“Now I hadn’t thought of that before,” admitted Amos, candidly. “It’s
really a fact, though, isn’t it? Every soldier nowadays has to be
physically sound, of a certain height, and even his teeth are examined
to make sure they’re fit. When a million or two such athletes are cut
off, the old world is going to take a step backward for years to come.”

“Let’s put our best foot forward, and get to what’s left of the
village, Amos.”

They trudged along for a little while in almost absolute silence, each
boy being busily occupied with his own thoughts. Perhaps Amos, as would
be quite natural, was planning what arguments he should use when he
came upon his brother. Jack on his part may have been thinking more
of the fate that had overtaken the poor Belgian village which by the
fortunes of war seemed to have been in the direct line of fire between
the hostile armies.

As they reached a certain little knoll they were given an opportunity
to take their first good look at the place where they had passed that
never-to-be-forgotten night, when the roar of approaching battle had
stirred their young blood to fever heat.

Amos uttered a cry in which astonishment was mingled with pain. He even
rubbed his eyes as though he almost believed they had deceived him.

“Jack, it’s gone!” he gasped. “The poor village I mean! Just see how
the cottages have been smashed to smithereens by the shells the Germans
hurled over here while the Allies were holding the place! Oh! it’s
terrible, terrible! I don’t believe there are two stones on top of each
other.”

“Well, it isn’t quite as bad as that, Amos,” said his comrade, “because
I can see several houses still standing, though they’re wrecks at
that. But if ever there was a peaceful village turned into a howling
wilderness this one has been.”

“But, Jack, what’s become of the people?”

“A whole lot of them were wise enough to get away at the time we did,”
Jack reminded him. “You remember how we found them strung out along
the road. By now we hope they’ve found lodging somewhere in Northern
France; for the French people have warm hearts, and owe Belgium such
a heavy debt for holding back the Kaiser’s army that they will share
their last crust with their neighbors.”

“Still there were some who meant to stay here, Jack?” urged Amos.

“That’s true enough,” came the answer, “and our old landlord the
burgomaster was of the number, though I reckon he insisted on most of
his people going away. They had a good deep cellar under that cottage,
he told us; perhaps no German shell buried itself down there to find
them out. Come, let’s head that way. I’ve got an idea the one house we
can see standing over there is the very home where we were taken in.”

“I hope so, Jack, I surely do!” exclaimed the other boy fervently. “I’d
hate to learn that such a fine old man had been done for. If that is
the house, though, I’d never recognize it with the corners torn off,
and the chimney fallen in ruins. Oh, Jack, see, there’s a gaping hole
in the wall showing where a shell passed through. If it exploded inside
we can guess the fate of all that were hiding there.”

“Look again, Amos, and you’ll see that it came out through that hole,
and buried itself in the ground right here. It was a German shell, of
course, as pretty much all that fell upon this place must have been;
for the British were behind the houses holding the enemy off, and every
effort was made to chase them out.”

“But they held their ground, it seems like,” said Amos, “and with the
coming of reinforcements pushed the Germans back a mile or more. Now to
find out what happened to the old burgomaster.

“Jack, tell me, isn’t that some one moving around inside the ruins of
the cottage?”

“I do believe you’re right, Amos. We’ll soon know who it is,” replied
the Western boy, as he made for the doorway.

The cottage could only be called a ruin, even though its four walls
still stood, and part of the roof seemed to be fairly intact. A tree
just outside that had given grateful shade for many years was stripped
of its limbs, and the trunk stood like a gaunt skeleton, a grim
reminder of the furious hail of bombs that had fallen upon that devoted
village for hours.

Jack had to almost climb over the mass of debris that cumbered the
open doorway. He immediately found that the wrecked cottage did have
occupants. Several figures were stretched upon blankets on the floor,
and others hovered over them, showing that the place was really being
used as a sort of hospital.

Jack immediately saw, however, that those who were being thus attended
were not soldiers of the line. One was a woman, another an old man,
while the third seemed to be a small figure, presumably that of a mere
lad.

A hand clutched Jack’s arm, and the voice of his chum whispered
hoarsely in his ear:

“Our old friend has come through it all with his life, Jack; don’t you
see him giving that boy a drink, and passing his hand over the poor
little chap’s forehead? Seems to me I’ve set eyes on that boy before,
and--yes, as sure as anything, Jack, I do believe it’s little Jacques.
He’s been struck down, just as we feared.”

“They seem to be hovering over him in a strange way,” ventured Jack.
“There’s a Belgian soldier holding his other hand, and two women doing
what they can. Jacques doesn’t lack for friends, it seems. I wonder
what it all means, and if he tried to carry out that foolish vow he
made about getting revenge for his father’s death.”

Just then it happened that the old burgomaster, who no longer had a
village under his charge, looked around. He may have heard the murmur
of their voices during some lull in the dreadful chaos of sounds that
came from the front, rising and falling as the wind chanced to swerve.

At sight of the two American boys his wrinkled face showed great
pleasure. He immediately got up from his knees and hurried toward them,
holding out his hand in warm welcome.

“I am glad to see you again, young messieurs,” he said, simply. “I
wondered much what had become of you, and prayed that you had escaped
the terrible shells that seemed to cover every mile of territory around
this poor village.”

Amos was conscious of a feeling of amazement. He marveled greatly that
the good old man could spare even one thought for them, when he himself
was face to face with so overpowering a peril. It certainly spoke well
for his heart. No wonder then that those who had lived in that place
had made him their burgomaster. In Belgium that name stands not only
for Mayor, but father to the entire community, with an eye single to
the welfare of the “children” entrusted to his care.

“We are glad, too, on finding that you escaped when so many must have
been killed or injured here, even while hidden in cellars,” Jack told
him.

The burgomaster shook his white head dismally. There was an expression
of woe on his face, but in spite of all Jack could detect the gleam
of an unconquered spirit in those unflinching eyes. The Kaiser might
overrun Belgium with his soldiers, and hold every foot of soil, but he
would never be able to crush the independence of soul that has always
been the common heritage of every Belgian.

“It has been a terrible calamity,” he said, simply. “We bow our heads
before the storm, even as the trees do when the wind blows, and the
thunder rolls. But after it is all over they raise their crests again.
So, too, young messieurs, will Belgium rise from the ruins of her
cities and towns to become greater than before.”

How proudly he said that. Amos would never forget the exalted look on
the seamed face of the old burgomaster. Somehow he found it in his
heart to believe every word of that prophecy must in the course of time
come true.

“These wounded persons, did they get their injuries while down in the
cellar? Was it a shell that exploded there to scatter death around?”
Jack asked, nodding toward the group hovering around the blankets on
the floor, upon which those forms were stretched.

“Heaven was merciful in that nothing like that came upon us,” the old
man hastened to inform him. “They received their hurts outside, as did
others who are now being cared for amidst the ruins of our poor houses,
by some of those who remained with me in shelter.”

“And how about little Jacques?” asked Amos, unable to hold his
curiosity in check any longer.

The burgomaster allowed his grim features to relax for a brief moment
in what was almost a smile; though with so much suffering around him
it sat strangely upon his face. He nodded his head several times as he
went on to say:

“Ah! young M’sieu, that is the most remarkable thing I ever knew to
happen. Yes, it is little Jacques you see there on the blanket. He has
been injured, but we hope and believe he will recover. He surely will
if our prayers are of any avail; for, wonderful to say, little Jacques
is this day a hero of heroes!”

At that Amos uttered a pleased cry.

“Oh! do you really mean to tell us the little chap actually found his
chance after all? What did he do--what could so small a boy do against
the fighting soldiers of the Kaiser? Please tell us all about it.”

“It was in this way,” described the burgomaster, proudly. “When the
Germans came into the village after that first furious bombardment they
managed to hold half of the place. There was fighting in every street,
desperate hand-to-hand fighting, for those British were determined they
would not be chased out wholly. This kept up until the reinforcements
arrived on the run, wild with the lust for blood. Then step by step the
Germans were pressed back, until in the end they lost their grip on the
village.”

“After that the bombardment must have started in afresh, until the
whole place was leveled as flat as a plain?” interposed Jack, wishing
to get all the facts clearly in his mind, for future use in his letters
to the paper he represented.

“Just as you say, young M’sieu,” continued the burgomaster. “It was
while the Germans held part of the town that Jacques found his great
opportunity. Two of the invaders discovered him there on the street
amidst all that furious firing back and forth. They seized hold of the
lad, and, I believe, threatened him with death if he did not reveal the
place where his people were hiding with their valuables. The boy played
his part well, and after making out that he was almost frightened to
death agreed to lead them to our hiding place.”

“Oh! he always claimed that he had a trap ready to spring!” exclaimed
Amos, who found himself intensely interested in the story. “Did those
two Germans really fall into it, Monsieur?”

“He must have acted his part wonderfully well,” said the old man
proudly, for it must be remembered that the lad’s father was his own
cousin. “He made them force him along; for in some manner he succeeded
in lulling any suspicions they may have had in the start. And,
Messieurs, in the end Jacques, a Belgian boy with a heart that beats
only for his beloved country, managed to entrap those two pillagers, so
that they are now prisoners in the hands of our forces.”

“But how could he do such a wonderful thing?” asked Amos, not
skeptically, for he fully believed every word the burgomaster spoke,
but with a keen desire to know all the particulars.

“Ah! we none of us understand as yet, for Jacques has been too weak
to explain,” the old man told them. “Besides, something else has
occurred to claim his attention. What we know is that after the British
reclaimed the ruins of our poor village, and the Germans had been
beaten back as many as six times, on coming out from my hiding place to
see what could be done for those who were lying by scores and hundreds
around, I found the boy badly injured by a fragment of a bursting shell.

“He seemed feverish with but one desire, and that to tell where two
German soldiers could be found shut in a hole in the ground. I found
a British officer who sent some of his men to the place, and it was as
Jacques had said. A great rock had been toppled over so as to fill in
the gap, and this he must have learned some time ago could be hurled
down with even a child’s puny strength. And that, young Messieurs,
was the trap Jacques always hinted to us about, but at which we only
smiled.”

“Bully for little Jacques!” exclaimed Amos, carried away with boyish
enthusiasm.

“When he saw the soldiers passing by with the two Germans in their
charge Jacques, although in great pain, laughed in glee, for the one
great hope of his life had been realized,” continued the burgomaster,
“but even then he did not know what else there was waiting for him. As
the story of his valor went around many of the British soldiers came
here to see the Belgian boy who had captured two big Germans alone and
unaided. We even had a general visit us, and tell the lad how proud he
was that the sons of their allies should display such valor. But while
this may have pleased Jacques there was something else coming that
overwhelmed him with joy.”

Jack started at hearing this. Somehow he suddenly remembered that man
in the stained uniform of a Belgian soldier who was bending over the
little figure of the boy hero, and one of whose arms seemed to be
swathed in bandages.

“That soldier over there, who holds his hand on the head of Jacques,
and looks down at him so tenderly, is his father, supposed to have
fallen at Antwerp?” he asked.

“Yes, it is as you say, young M’sieu; he lived, and has come to claim
his boy!”




CHAPTER XXV. NEARING THE GOAL.


“That’s splendid news,” Jack at once remarked. “I’m glad for the sake
of little Jacques that his brave father did not die there in front of
Antwerp as you all believed. If I had time I’d like to hear his story,
because I reckon it’d be well worth listening to. But we have business
of our own to look after, and so must once more take leave of you.”

“Do you think he will get well again?” asked Amos, who under different
conditions, would only too willingly have volunteered to help take care
of the wounded, since his education as a Boy Scout had taught him how
to apply the principles of “first aid to the injured.”

“We have strong hopes,” replied the old burgomaster. “Joy is better
than all the medicine a doctor can bring. Jacques has found his father
again; and besides, his young heart is filled with happiness because he
was given a chance to strike a blow against the enemies of his country.
Yes, he surely must get well now, and live to see a new day dawn for
Belgium.”

They both went over to nod to the boy, and the look of contentment upon
his face told them his severe wounds were at the time forgotten in the
thanksgiving that filled his heart. Both of them would in time to come
often think of Jacques, and hope the good angel that had brought back
his father would continue to guard the boy’s further fortunes.

Once again Jack and Amos found themselves outside, and wandering amidst
the ruins of the village where only recently the fighting had reached
its height. Here was the high-tide mark of that furious German drive;
just as Gettysburg marked the apex of the Lost Cause in the war between
the States in ’63. Jack wondered whether history would repeat itself,
for he believed that if Germany were defeated it would only be through
the force of greater numbers arrayed against her, with pretty much all
the world in arms.

They wandered around seeking some means of learning where they could
secure the information they required. Never would they forget the
sights that greeted them on every side. The ground looked almost as
though it had been ploughed, such were the number of shells that
had fallen on that devoted village during the time it was under
bombardment. To Amos it seemed incredible that any living thing could
have remained there and lived through that holocaust of crashing
shells; and yet those undaunted men in khaki must have found some
sort of concealment, for every time the Teuton force charged, after a
cessation in the firing, they were met by the British, and mowed down
by the Maxims that were hurriedly brought to bear on the solid ranks
coming forward.

Most of the wounded had been removed by now, and were being taken to
the rear in the motor vans, lorries, and Red Cross ambulances. The dead
for the most part lay where they had fallen, though several gangs
of men stumbled among the gruesome piles, and seemed to be engaged
in placing them in shallow graves, after securing the identification
medals which every soldier wore about his neck, so that his fate might
be made known to his sorrowing people at home.

Again and again were the boys stopped, and asked what business they had
there in the midst of such harrowing scenes. On every occasion Jack
showed the order from the commanding general, which was couched in no
uncertain words, and invariably produced the desired effect, for all
opposition was immediately removed.

They had been instructed whom they must ask for in order to learn
whether Frank Bradford was still hard at work serving the Allies as a
daring aviator. No one was likely to possess this information save some
of his comrades, or the chief of the aerial staff, in whose charge all
these operations had been placed.

For two hours did the boys walk after leaving the ruined village.
Sometimes they were misinformed, for changes were being made rapidly
in those stirring times, and Headquarters today might be miles away
from where it had been twelve hours before.

“It’s a long run, trying to find that officer,” remarked Amos, who of
course was racked constantly by his hopes and fears, and wished the
crisis would hurry along, so that he might know what to expect.

“That’s so,” admitted the cheerful Jack, “but all the time we’re
getting warmer and warmer on the trail. Right now I can see where that
last monoplane rose from, and the chances are we’ll find the party
we’re looking for at that spot.”

“It gives me the queerest sort of feeling, Jack, just to believe that
any minute now I may be squeezing Frank’s hand, and looking into his
eyes again. I was always mighty fond of my big brother, you know, and
it nearly broke my heart, small chap that I really was at the time,
when he told me he was going away forever, because our father had
unjustly accused him of doing something which he denied. If only I find
him safe and sound I’ll be the happiest fellow in all Europe.”

“Except one, perhaps, Amos, and that’s little Jacques, whose father
came back to him from the dead.”

“Well, finding Frank and carrying him home with me will be almost
like the same thing, for he’s been as dead to us for many years!”
declared Amos, eagerly watching the aeroplane that was now soaring
swiftly aloft, already a target for hostile fire, as the little white
puffs of smoke told where the shrapnel shells were bursting all around
the daring pilot. “I’m wondering again whether that can be Frank up
yonder, and if he’ll come back safely. It would be a terrible thing if
something happened to him just when I had run him down.”

“Oh! don’t allow yourself to give way to such an idea,” said Jack.
“Look on the bright side of things all the time. Think how we’ve been
carried through our troubles so splendidly. No matter how dark things
seemed they always took a turn for the better in the end, and every
time it proved the best thing that could have happened to us.”

With an effort the boy managed to get a better hold upon himself. This
companionship with Jack was the luckiest thing that could ever have
happened to Amos; for the Western lad always seemed to steady him at
times when his nerves were sorely tried, so as to give him renewed
strength of purpose.

“There goes another ’plane up, Jack!” he exclaimed a minute later.
“That first pilot, now high over the German lines, seems to be holding
his own in spite of all the shrapnel they can send after him. Yes,
you must be right in saying we’re coming to where we will find the
controlling force of the aviation corps. Before another half hour goes
by I’m likely to know the best--or the worst!”

“You’ll be wringing Frank’s hand and telling him how proud you are to
learn that the boldest of all the Allied aviators, known under the
name of Frank Bradford, is your own dear brother--make up your mind to
that!” said Jack, sturdily, for he saw that his chum was trembling
with suspense.

When one has dreamed and thought of a certain object for days and
weeks, and it comes time when he may know the truth, small wonder that
he shivers with alternate hope and dread. Amos was only human. You and
I most likely would feel the same nervousness under similar conditions.

Amos uttered a cry of dismay, as though he had received a sudden shock.

“Oh! Jack, they did get that second pilot, you see!” he exclaimed.
“He’s volplaning down now like everything, and will fall inside the
German lines perhaps!”

“No, he’s heading this way!” declared Jack. “From the fact that they’re
still keeping up their fire I reckon they fear he’ll escape them. The
pilot couldn’t have been badly hurt when his ’plane was struck, because
I can see him sitting up and managing his machine. It was only his
motor that was put out of commission, and if he keeps on as he’s going
now he’ll get safely down.”

“There, he’s disappeared behind that line of trees!” cried Amos, “but
the firing has nearly stopped, so they must think it’s no use wasting
any more ammunition on him. Let’s hurry, Jack! I’m wild to know if that
was my brother. Something just seems to tell me it must have been. Ten
minutes more ought to take us over there where he came down. Just to
think of it, only that short time, and I’ll see him, if I’m lucky!”

Apparently Jack was as intent upon settling the question as Amos
himself could be. He put on more speed, and side by side they broke
into a run, such was their eagerness to cover the intervening ground.
Men in khaki looked after them in bewilderment, not knowing who these
two boys were, or what object they could have in thus braving the
fearful ordeals to be encountered on a battlefield.

Amos was caring little for all this. He had but one object in view,
and that the settling of the question whether his long absent brother
Frank, now one of the Allies’ aviators, was working on that section of
the firing line, and if he was fated to meet him face to face after so
arduous a search.

Whether Amos and his faithful chum Jack were to be rewarded with
immediate success after their eventful hunt for the missing Frank,
or meet with still further disappointment, must, however, be left to
another story, which the reader will find ready for his perusal later
on.

THE END.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOY AVIATORS’ SERIES

By Captain Wilbur Lawton

Absolutely Modern Stories for Boys

Cloth Bound Price, 50c per volume

The Boy Aviators in Nicaragua Or, Leagued With Insurgents

The launching of this Twentieth Century series marks the inauguration
of a new era in boys’ books--the “wonders of modern science” epoch.
Frank and Harry Chester, the BOY AVIATORS, are the heroes of this
exciting, red-blooded tale of adventure by air and land in the
turbulent Central American republic. The two brothers with their
$10,000 prize aeroplane, the GOLDEN EAGLE, rescue a chum from death in
the clutches of the Nicaraguans, discover a lost treasure valley of the
ancient Toltec race, and in so doing almost lose their own lives in the
Abyss of the White Serpents, and have many other exciting experiences,
including being blown far out to sea in their air-skimmer in a tropical
storm. It would be unfair to divulge the part that wireless plays in
rescuing them from their predicament. In a brand new field of fiction
for boys, the Chester brothers and their aeroplane seem destined
to fill a top-notch place. These books are technically correct,
wholesomely thrilling and geared up to third speed.

Sold by Booksellers Everywhere

HURST & CO. Publishers NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

BOY AVIATORS’ SERIES

By CAPTAIN WILBUR LAWTON

ABSOLUTELY MODERN STORIES FOR BOYS

_Cloth Bound Price, 50c per volume_

The Boy Aviators on Secret Service Or, Working With Wireless

In this live-wire narrative of peril and adventure, laid in the
Everglades of Florida, the spunky Chester Boys and their interesting
chums, including Ben Stubbs, the maroon, encounter exciting experiences
on Uncle Sam’s service in a novel field. One must read this vivid,
enthralling story of incident, hardship and pluck to get an idea of
the almost limitless possibilities of the two greatest inventions of
modern times--the aeroplane and wireless telegraphy. While gripping and
holding the reader’s breathless attention from the opening words to the
finish, this swift-moving story is at the same time instructive and
uplifting. As those readers who have already made friends with Frank
and Harry Chester and their “bunch” know, there are few difficulties,
no matter how insurmountable they may seem at first blush, that
these up-to-date gritty youths cannot overcome with flying colors. A
clean-cut, real boys’ book of high voltage.

Sold by Booksellers Everywhere

HURST & CO. Publishers NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

BOY AVIATORS’ SERIES

BY CAPTAIN WILBUR LAWTON

Absolutely Modern Stories for Boys

Cloth Bound Price, 50c per volume

The Boy Aviators in Africa Or, An Aerial Ivory Trail

In this absorbing book we meet, on a Continent made famous by the
American explorer Stanley, and ex-President Roosevelt, our old friends,
the Chester Boys and their stalwart chums. In Africa--the Dark
Continent--the author follows in exciting detail his young heroes,
their voyage in the first aeroplane to fly above the mysterious forests
and unexplored ranges of the mystic land. In this book, too, for the
first time, we entertain Luther Barr, the old New York millionaire,
who proved later such an implacable enemy of the boys. The story of
his defeated schemes, of the astonishing things the boys discovered in
the Mountains of the Moon, of the pathetic fate of George Desmond, the
emulator of Stanley, the adventure of the Flying Men and the discovery
of the Arabian Ivory cache,--this is not the place to speak. It would
be spoiling the zest of an exciting tale to reveal the outcome of all
these episodes here. It may be said, however, without “giving away”
any of the thrilling chapters of this narrative, that Captain Wilbur
Lawton, the author, is in it in his best vein, and from his personal
experiences in Africa has been able to supply a striking background for
the adventures of his young heroes. As one newspaper says of this book:
“Here is adventure in good measure, pressed down and running over.”

Sold by Booksellers Everywhere

HURST & CO. Publishers NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

BOY AVIATORS’ SERIES

BY CAPTAIN WILBUR LAWTON

Absolutely Modern Stories for Boys

Cloth Bound Price, 50c per volume

The Boy Aviators’ Treasure Quest Or, The Golden Galleon

Everybody is a boy once more when it comes to the question of hidden
treasure. In this book, Captain Lawton has set forth a hunt for gold
that is concealed neither under the sea nor beneath the earth, but
is well hidden for all that. A garrulous old sailor, who holds the
key to the mystery of the Golden Galleon, plays a large part in the
development of the plot of this fascinating narrative of treasure
hunting in the region of the Gulf Stream and the Sagasso Sea. An
aeroplane fitted with efficient pontoons--enabling her to skim the
water successfully--has long been a dream of aviators. The Chester Boys
seem to have solved the problem. The Sagasso, that strange drifting
ocean within an ocean, holding ships of a dozen nations and a score
of ages in its relentless grip, has been the subject of many books
of adventure and mystery, but in none has the secret of the ever
shifting mass of treacherous currents been penetrated as it has in the
BOY AVIATORS’ TREASURE QUEST. Luther Barr, whom it seemed the boys had
shaken off, is still on their trail, in this absorbing book and with
a dirigible balloon, essays to beat them out in their search for the
Golden Galleon. Every boy, every man--and woman and girl--who has ever
felt the stirring summons of adventure in their souls, had better get
hold of this book. Once obtained, it will be read and re-read till it
falls to rags.

Sold by Booksellers Everywhere

HURST & CO. Publishers NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

BOY AVIATORS’ SERIES

BY CAPTAIN WILBUR LAWTON

Absolutely Modern Stories for Boys

Cloth Bound Price, 50c per volume

The Boy Aviators in Record Flight Or, The Rival Aeroplane

The Chester Boys in new field of endeavor--an attempt to capture a
newspaper prize for a trans-continental flight. By the time these lines
are read, exactly such an offer will have been spread, broadcast by one
of the foremost newspapers of the country. In the Golden Eagle, the
boys, accompanied by a trail-blazing party in an automobile, make the
dash. But they are not alone in their aspirations. Their rivals for the
rich prize at stake try in every way that they can to circumvent the
lads and gain the valuable trophy and monetary award. In this they stop
short at nothing, and it takes all the wits and resources of the Boy
Aviators to defeat their devices. Among the adventures encountered in
their cross-country flight, the boys fall in with a band of rollicking
cowboys--who momentarily threaten serious trouble--are attacked by
Indians, strike the most remarkable town of the desert--the “dry” town
of “Gow Wells,” encounter a sandstorm which blows them into strange
lands far to the south of their course, and meet with several amusing
mishaps beside. A thoroughly readable book. The sort to take out behind
the barn on the sunny side of the haystack, and, with a pocketful of
juicy apples and your heels kicking the air, pass happy hours with
Captain Lawton’s young heroes.

Sold by Booksellers Everywhere

HURST & CO. Publishers NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

BOY AVIATORS’ SERIES

BY CAPTAIN WILBUR LAWTON

Absolutely Modern Stories for Boys

Cloth Bound Price, 50c per volume

The Boy Aviators’ Polar Dash Or, Facing Death in the Antarctic

If you were to hear that two boys, accompanying a South Polar
expedition in charge of the aeronautic department, were to penetrate
the Antarctic regions--hitherto only attained by a few daring
explorers--you would feel interested, wouldn’t you? Well, in Captain
Lawton’s latest book, concerning his Boy Aviators, you can not only
read absorbing adventure in the regions south of the eightieth
parallel, but absorb much useful information as well. Captain Lawton
introduces--besides the original characters of the heroes--a new
creation in the person of Professor Simeon Sandburr, a patient
seeker for polar insects. The professor’s adventures in his quest
are the cause of much merriment, and lead once or twice to serious
predicaments. In a volume so packed with incident and peril from cover
to cover--relieved with laughable mishaps to the professor--it is
difficult to single out any one feature; still, a recent reader of it
wrote the publishers an enthusiastic letter the other day, saying:
“The episodes above the Great Barrier are thrilling, the attack of
the condors in Patagonia made me hold my breath the--but what’s the
use? The Polar Dash, to my mind, is an even more entrancing book than
Captain Lawton’s previous efforts, and that’s saying a good deal. The
aviation features and their technical correctness are by no means the
least attractive features of this up-to-date creditable volume.”

Sold by Booksellers Everywhere

HURST & CO. Publishers NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

BORDER BOYS SERIES

Mexican and Canadian Frontier Series

By FREMONT B. DEERING.

Cloth Bound. Illustrated. Price, 50c. per vol., postpaid

[Illustration]

THE BORDER BOYS ON THE TRAIL.

What it meant to make an enemy of Black Ramon De Barios--that is the
problem that Jack Merrill and his friends, including Coyote Pete, face
in this exciting tale.

THE BORDER BOYS ACROSS THE FRONTIER.

Read of the Haunted Mesa and its mysteries, of the Subterranean River
and its strange uses, of the value of gasolene and steam “in running
the gauntlet,” and you will feel that not even the ancient splendors of
the Old World can furnish a better setting for romantic action than the
Border of the New.

THE BORDER BOYS WITH THE MEXICAN RANGERS.

As every day is making history--faster, it is said, than ever
before--so books that keep pace with the changes are full of rapid
action and accurate facts. This book deals with lively times on the
Mexican border.

THE BORDER BOYS WITH THE TEXAS RANGERS.

The Border Boys have already had much excitement and adventure in their
lives, but all this has served to prepare them for the experiences
related in this volume. They are stronger, braver and more resourceful
than ever, and the exigencies of their life in connection with the
Texas Rangers demand all their trained ability.

Any volume sent postpaid upon receipt of price.

HURST & COMPANY--Publishers--NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

DREADNOUGHT BOYS SERIES

Tales of the New Navy

By CAPT. WILBUR LAWTON

Author of “BOY AVIATORS SERIES.”

Cloth Bound. Illustrated. Price, 50c. per vol., postpaid

[Illustration]

THE DREADNOUGHT BOYS ON BATTLE PRACTICE.

Especially interesting and timely is this book, which introduces the
reader with its heroes, Ned and Herc, to the great ships of modern
warfare and to the intimate life and surprising adventures of Uncle
Sam’s sailors.

THE DREADNOUGHT BOYS ABOARD A DESTROYER.

In this story real dangers threaten and the boys’ patriotism is tested
in a peculiar international tangle. The scene is laid on the South
American coast.

THE DREADNOUGHT BOYS ON A SUBMARINE.

To the inventive genius--trade-school boy or mechanic--this story has
special charm, perhaps, but to every reader its mystery and clever
action are fascinating.

THE DREADNOUGHT BOYS ON AERO SERVICE.

Among the volunteers accepted for Aero Service are Ned and Herc. Their
perilous adventures are not confined to the air, however, although they
make daring and notable flights in the name of the Government; nor are
they always able to fly beyond the reach of their old “enemies,” who
are also airmen.

Any volume sent postpaid upon receipt of price.

HURST & COMPANY--Publishers--NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber’s Notes:

Illustrations have been moved to paragraph breaks near where they are
mentioned.

Punctuation has been made consistent.

Variations in spelling and hyphenation were retained as they appear in
the original publication, except that obvious typographical errors have
been corrected.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Two American Boys with the Allied
Armies, by Sherman Crockett

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TWO AMERICAN BOYS WITH ALLIED ARMIES ***

***** This file should be named 60660-0.txt or 60660-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/6/6/60660/

Produced by Demian Katz, Craig Kirkwood, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (Images
courtesy of the Digital Library@Villanova University
(http://digital.library.villanova.edu/))

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

